	The definition of nature in the Blazing World is an inconstant and varied one that has been conceived by Cavendish as a way of countering the conventional utopia. Cavendish also takes the opportunity to critique “new” scientific methodology while arguing for the merits of rationalism.The reason for this, perhaps, is that Cavendish sees nature as a powerful force that cannot be observed in a consistent manner. In Cavendish’s utopia, Trubowitz explains, “nature conforms to no system or rationalized framework.” As such, a scientific approach would be counter to rational methodology, rendering it all but useless. While this may sound to some like a poorly formulated argument, it does stem from Cavendish’s experience living in a world where the same scientific approaches led to the “prevailing medical view of women’s bodies [being] that they were moister and therefore more changeable than those of men.” Certainly, modern audiences would find this idea to be completely absurd, not to mention false. Still, the fact remains that such views became a common source of inspiration for many writers in Cavendish’s time who spent a great deal of time accusing women of being the source of a multitude of problems in society. The deviation that The Blazing World makes from a “typical” utopian novel is based mainly on the purpose of a utopia which, as Trubowitz explains, is that it “celebrates the attempt to rationalize human culture.” Being that nature is not something that can be rationalized as it pertains to human culture, this definition does not fit into the framework of the Blazing World. Cambridge University professor of English J.C. Davis describes the utopia as “distinguished by its pursuit of legal, institutional, bureaucratic and educational means of producing a harmonious society.” It is the Empress’s goal to achieve harmony, both in the Blazing World and in her native land, which has recently come under attack from its enemies. The fantastical elements of the Blazing world allow for a utopia that, while slightly different from the traditional concept, addresses the problems facing the world in order to help create that ideal, harmonious society.
	The Empress’s interactions with the Duchess allow Cavendish present the author’s concerns about the natural world, thus allowing her to explore ideas from alternating viewpoints. By creating a Duchess character who can provide guidance to the Empress, Cavendish deviates from the scientific exploration of ideas in favor of a more philosophical approach. After the Empress expresses her concerns, Fletcher explains, “she is counseled by Cavendish’s fictional persona to bring the warring schools of her realm under ‘one Soveraign.’” As was previously discussed, the Empress’s awareness of her anxieties is an important part the author’s model of female sovereignty, and the foundation for the broader argument in favor of women in leadership positions. More than simply providing a platform for discussion, the relationship between the Empress and the Duchess engages Cavendish’s epistemological fancy by splitting the characters’ minds from their respective bodies. In these sections, according to National University of Singapore professor of British Literature Anne M. Thell, “the minds of the Empress and the Duchess travel so effortlessly and so quickly that they access a kind of panoptic vision that allows them to view instantaneously every part of the world and every creature in it.” Since both characters are capable of making these same observations of the natural world, so too can they each rely on the same source material for their discussions. Still, Thell suggests that the relationship between the Empress and the Duchess may be extended to include Cavendish herself, since she is the narrator of the story and therefore the two women, and because both of whom are endowed by the author with traces of her voice. Consequently, each voice corresponds to a single world: the Empress, having gathered a considerable amount of wisdom from the various animal-men, represents the Blazing World; the Duchess, a native of the novel’s “real” world, is its delegate; and lastly, Cavendish, who is satirizing aspects of English society (and, to some extent, mankind in general) through her writing, is also its voice. In the novel, it is the Duchess who advises the Empress to restore the Blazing World to its former state: “since [the Duchess] had heard by her Imperial Majesty, how well and happily the world had been governed when she first came to be empress thereof, she would advise her Majesty to introduce the same form of government again.” With the benefit of the Duchess’s guidance, the Empress is able to successfully overcome her supposed womanlike tendency toward change, and thus take advantage of the Blazing World’s natural resources and systems in order to overhaul the system back in her native land. 
