 Because of the lack of background or bounding constraints, the scene has a sense of timelessness. On the page adjacent to that one, Asterios is sitting on his bed in the topsy-turvy room that Ursula had created for him. He stares at the door, which is located in the top right corner of the panel, but the hallway is empty. No one has heard his observation. On the next two pages, the same composition is repeated—a floating Asterios on the left page, but this time, the right page shows Asterios sitting on his bed in his and Hana’s apartment. In this version of events, when he looks at the door Hana is standing there.  

By itself, a blister is probably one of the smallest annoyances that can bother a person.  Often caused by friction, blisters are the result of the body reacting to negligible but prolonged trauma, such as a shoe consistently rubbing against an ankle. It is strangely appropriate, then, that this kind of small detail—the kind that only matters because of repeated exposure—sparks a flood of equally small memories for Asterios Polyp. Over the course of the next six pages, Mazzucchelli draws dozens of moments from Hana and Asterios’s time together. Each panel shows a memory that by itself, would be insignificant, ranging from Hana flossing her teeth to popping a zit to drooling as she sleeps. The panels are laid out on the page with little structure and no sense of color or dominant subject to lead the viewer’s attention; Mazzucchelli has again chosen to echo Kalvin’s theory of cacophony.  

In recalling all of these disparate memories, Asterios is grappling with Hana as a whole person, in a way that he never had before. However, memory is not enough to bring her into being. As the section ends, the panels on the second to last page grow smaller and further apart, suggesting the idea of fading. On the last page, Asterios is once again the only subject, lost in a sea of negative space— because unfortunately, changing one’s perspective of a past memory cannot change the memory of a past perspective.

Immediately following that segment, Asterios enters into a dream sequence that alludes to the Greek myth of Orpheus’ nearly successful attempt to free his dead wife from the underworld.
In the dream, Asterios travels down into the “underworld”—in this case, the subway—and watches as two actors pantomime the arc of Asterios and Hana’s relationship. When Hana “dies,” Asterios begins to lament. At that point, Willy—the stand-in for Hades in this retelling—arrives and, through gesture, explains what Asterios must do. In keeping with the original myth, Asterios seems to be told he may free his wife, but only if he manages to lead her out of Hades without looking back at her.


Hana appears, and at first all seems to be going well: Asterios is not looking at her, and they are both making their way out of Hades successfully. Halfway through the journey, however, something goes wrong: over the course of three panels, Hana slowly lets go of Asterios’s hand. Sensing the loss of her touch, Asterios opens his eyes and turns to look back—and Hana disappears in a wave of fire. According to Christopher McCarthy, who wrote his doctoral thesis on Asterios Polyp, Hana disappears because Asterios disobeyed and looked back.  In this reading, Asterios’s fatal flaw stems from him refusing to trust that Hana would follow him voluntarily.
