Our bodies are not our own. Our actions, thoughts, energies, and desires have already been mediated, calculated, put into discourse, and controlled. That all is what every argument in The History of Sexuality adheres to. What of the repressive hypothesis Foucault finds fault in, however, is the characterization of the relations power has with sex. Foucault's disagreement permeates the text; later articulations on his 
 analytics of power may best be understood in response to the conceptualizations of power that allow the repressive hypothesis to flourish philosophically. In other words, Foucault's arguments against the repressive hypothesis relate to his in power in that the latter is constructed as an extension of the former. 
	Foucault's arguments against the repressive hypothesis are deliberately delineated into a tripartite affair, but he raises several other doubts throughout his novel that, still serving as major contentions, are nevertheless not listed as significant areas of focus. Foucault, for example, attacks a type of entirely juridical-based understanding of power and devotes significant study into explaining the historical origins of such a reading; the reason is self-evident, these understandings of power are typically deployed in defenses of the repressive hypothesis, which assumes from laws and codes typifying appropriate means of referring to sex and sanctioned modes of sexual activity that sex was entirely a subject of censorship, a subject that was willingly unspoken and unheard of during this era, a claim that Foucault opposes with the idea that the discourses on sex multiplied and were diversified, alongside the creation of 'sexual heterogenities'. In other words, Foucault, looking through other lenses with which to view history, vehemently disagrees with understandings of power as a phenomenon expressed only by the rule of law, a disagreement he will later extend to interpretations of power as a function of typical 'high' society. 
	Regarding Foucault's second and third doubts to the repressive hypothesis, his answers are even more closely intertwined with his analytics of power. Although he provides some historical evidence against the relationship between power and sex being wholly one of repression through the example of the evolution of the Catholic pastoral and the degree to which secondary school administrators structured their administration in order to control the sexuality of children, larger arguments towards the doubts are raised within the theoretical sphere. 
	A majority of the construction on Foucault's ideas on power occur outside of materialism, or in a more theoretical sphere. 


	The History of Sexuality may be read almost entirely as an attempt to problematize the repressive hypothesis. From Foucault's beginning arguments against it to his later articulations on his theory of power, the repressive hypothesis becomes a standard to which Foucault's writings reply. Three doubts are supported by historical analysis that leads to five axioms and, both theoretically and materially, the hypothesis can be said to have no ground. 

Queer theory and deconstruction are natural bedfellows; on this Queer and Now and Fear of a Queer Planet agree. Both texts find some quintessence in queer theory and the queer subject as modes of existence that presuppose attacks on the dominant mode, attacks carried out through the process of deconstruction. However, the essays disagree on with which goals modern queer theory aligns itself, the goals by which queer theory should align itself, and among their individual constructions of the queer subject.
