Queer theory, despite its relative youth in academia, has nevertheless attracted a multitude of critiques, most of which focus on the material realities of queer and material constructions of the queer subject. Two studies, Punks, Bulldaggers and Welfare Queens; and “Quare” Studies, have exemplified this approach, examining the ways in which queer interacts with a variety of non-white, lower class subjects, though major differences lie in the externality of the subject to queer between the two texts. However, queer theorists may find a rejoinder in exploiting liminal spaces where theory and material align.
	Punks, Bulldaggers and Welfare Queens locates its critical thrust within problematizing binary constructions that place queer and heterosexuality at opposing poles. Cohen argues that this dichotomy misrepresents the topographies of marginalization and dominance within heterosexuality; that race, gender, and class are critical elements of heterosexual interpellation, that politics founded on single characteristics stifle the liberatory, tranformative, and radical potential of queer, which should focus on developing a politics in awareness of the ways in which 'race, gender, and class' can marginalize heterosexuals. 
	“Quare” Studies, on the other hand, examines a more specific manifestation of marginalization within queer communities. Though both texts have a fundamental concern in the ways in which queer politics examines non-white subjects, “Quare” specifies this examination to blackness. 

In addition, whereas Cohen examined marginalized identities external to queerness, Johnson limits his study to black people located within queerness. 
	 How might queer theorists respond to these criticisms? To Punks, Bulldaggers and Welfare Queens, queer theorists might argue that, of Cohen's heterosexual subjects, similar and queer subjects exist, further threaten the dominant mode, and are marginalized within spaces heterosexual subjects are not. That, while the material reality exposed within his text is problematic, his implied resolution to incorporate heterosexuality in queerness is not a full solution and focus on non-heterosexual subjects should take precedence in queer politics. Furthermore, a queer theorist critique of “Quare Studies” might argue that attempts to add definition to queer studies by invoking non-whiteness might threaten the degree to which queer functions as an unstable identity category and attempts to destablitize identity categories in general. 
	
