The argument made by the movie producer concludes that in order to ensure a successful movie, there needs to be an increase in the budget. The producer comes to this conclusion by making several assumptions that he believes would hamper the success of the movie without extra funding to bolster the movie’s potential. However, the assumptions made may not be valid enough to support the argument and thus, we must remain skeptical of the author’s conclusion. 
The first assumption made by the argument is that by increasing the budget, the quality of the product will be better. This assumptions rest on the grounds that just because something costs more, it would have better quality or be better overall. Would hiring more expensive actors ensure an improved movie? Do expensive actors have more experience in different areas of acting, or are they simply more expensive? Experience is subjective and what is better in one’s eyes is not necessarily better in others. The same question could be asked for production equipment used in filming. Would buying more expensive equipment to record scenes ensure improved sound quality? The producer assumes that spending more money means a better product, but without relevant data to show this, it does not in fact equal a more refined final product. We need more information to make an informed statement as to whether increasing the budget produces an overall better-quality movie.
A second assumption that the producer makes is that the first-time movie director lacks experience in producing movies, thus he would be lacking in directing this particular movie. Who is to say that with little experience in movie production, director would be slow or incompetent in his job as a movie director? The producer’s claim is subjective, and we do not know if this would be the case. Who is to say that first-time director’s experience in other areas would not translate to outstanding movie production? Additionally, the producer also makes the claim that the director is just like everyone else in the advertising business which he assumes is wasteful. Without empirical evidence, we do not know how much money is spend creating commercial ads compared to other types of productions. Do other types of production take longer to shoot, thus costing more money? How much money is spent on average in different production areas? With no concrete evidence to support his claim, the author makes unproven assumptions that discredit his conclusion.
