The physical differences of man have been noted from the beginning of time. Men tend to be more physically defined, while women tend to be softer and gentler. However, does this hold true for different aspects regarding both men and women across generations and time? Time has proven that females are just as capable as males in many different aspects, including those of physicality and mentality. Thus, men and women are equally suited across many different tasks regardless of gender qualities associated with either sex.
Physical differences in men and women have been noted across cultures, from the time of ancient Egyptians who carved drawings into stone, or to the Greek and Roman eras with their fascination of the human form and open acceptance of the body in sexuality. These cultures have made note of the physical attributes and how they differed between men and women. However, does that mean that one sex is better than the other and in what capacity?
Men, in general, tend to have physiological advantages due to key features that include taller statures, ie taller frames, larger bone structure and more muscle. This gives them the upper hand in jobs that require manual labor. For example, construction requires a lot of heavy lifting, and moving equipment and so it might indeed make it easier and probably more well suited for males to have jobs that require a lot of arduous physical work. However, it does not mean that women are incapable or not well suited for doing such tasks. 
Additionally, some females can also possess more physical strength than a male, possessing larger frames and more muscle, making the females more likely to handle heavy loads or carry out sedulous manor labor, suggesting they are more suited for a physical task. While, in general, men are more likely to do such manor labor tasks because of their physical features, it does not strike out the possibility females cannot do it or that they are not well enough suit for the task. Both men and women are likely to carry out tasks regarding of physical traits, and as such, gender has nothing to do with how well one can perform a task.  
Further, while males may have the upper hand in physical strength, does that necessarily translate into better mental capacities? There are many studies published by the Human Health and Intelligence Journal that assert physical strength has no direct link to how intelligent one is. Consequently, a man could have average physical strength but be lacking in intelligence, or a female who lacks strength could be quite intelligent. The possibilities between strength and intelligence are endless. Therefore, just because one has physical strength does not make them more well suited for intelligence tasks. Male and females will differ in what they are capable of and in doing so, it makes gender irrelevant in regard to who is better based on physical attributes alone.
In conclusion, men and women, differ in many aspects of their beings, however, it does not make either sex more or less likely to be able to do something better than the other. While, males may have more physical strength to carry out manual labor, it does not make females any less likely to also complete the same task. Further, physical strength alone is not an indicator of mental strength or capabilities. Just because a male is stronger does not mean he has is also more intelligent, making him better suited for many tasks over a female.  Physical attributes are irrelevant in determining what gender is better or more suited for different tasks. 
