The argument presented here is that resources should be invested more into unmanned space flight than manned spaceflight. The author comes to this conclusion based on two assumptions; the first being that manned spaceflight is costlier and more dangerous and the second assumption, that unmanned provides a great deal of useful information than manned spaceflight. No evidence is presented that shows how manned spaceflight is more costly, thus we cannot assume unmanned spaceflight is cheaper. Nor can does the second assumption give evidence to show that manned spaceflight can provide more useful information. There is simply not enough information present to corroborate if resources should be invested in unmanned versus manned spaceflight.
The author makes the assumption that manned spaceflight is costly and dangerous. Spaceflight in general is extremely expensive because of the technology it takes to make and produce equipment that would withstand the force of entering outer space. However, there is no evidence presented in the argument that states how the costs associated with manned versus unmanned spaceflight is greater. If manned spaceflight is indeed more costly, by much is that? A thousand more dollars, ten thousand, a million? Without an actually figure, we don’t know it the cost of going into outer space is worth the benefits.
The author also makes the assumption that manned spaceflight provides more useful information than manned spaceflight. In this capacity, how do we know what information is useful, and what is not? Is the information obtained quantifiable? Who makes those decisions, or would those decisions be the same across several different people? Again, the author makes these assumptions without any information present to bolster how information obtained through unmanned spaceflight is more useful than manned spaceflight. This assumption, then, fails to support why resources should be in invested in unmanned spaceflight versus manned spaceflight. 
In conclusion, the author presents a conclusion that that resources should be invested more into unmanned space flight than manned spaceflight. However, the assumptions that manned spaceflight is costlier and more dangerous, and that unmanned provides a great deal of more useful information than manned spaceflight, is not corroborated by any evidence. It is hard to know what whether these assumptions hold any weight to them without significant evidence to back them up, therefore we cannot fully accept the conclusion that more resources should be invested into unmanned versus
