If patients have been diagnosed with type 1 diabetes, they often experience thirst and increased urination. This is because increased thirst and frequent urination in diabetes will cause your blood glucose levels to rise. Thus, your body will try to pull fluid from your cells into the bloodstream and delivers an increased load to your kidneys; this will overwork your kidneys and cause them to produce more urine. As a result, frequent urination will cause thirst. 
Diabetes also have unintended weight loss because their body has problems processing glucose from the food they eat. Instead, their body will break down other energy sources like fat, which leads to weight loss. Also, if blood glucose levels are high, glucose in the blood cannot enter your body’s cells because your body is not producing insulin and thus, your body will not be able to convert the food that you eat into energy/fuel for your body to use. This leads to a decrease in energy and results in extreme hunger because your body is essentially being starved. Fatigue is also seen in patients because glucose is a primary source of energy, and their bodies are unable to convert glucose into energy which leads to fatigue. Your brain operates on the use of glucose to function, so when there is less glucose for you brain to use, this can result in slower thinking and less concentration. 
Blurred vision is also another symptom in type 1 diabetes and it is caused by high levels of glucose. Chronic elevated blood glucose levels can cause diabetic retinopathy where the tiny blood vessels in the eye start to hemorrhage and leak fluids. 
Since type 1 diabetes is caused by the destruction of pancreatic cells, individuals with type 1 diabetes will need lifelong insulin and blood sugar monitoring. Although there is no known cure for this disease, there are many treatments options that patients with type 1 diabetes can use to help control their blood glucose levels to within a normal range. 
Another form of treatment is to use an insulin pump. Pumps are small device which has a tube that connects a store of insulin in the pump to a catheter that is inserted in the under the skin (usually in the abdomen). Since an insulin pump directly monitors blood glucose levels, it can more accurate at controlling blood sugar levels than injections done with needles. 
Other treatments for type 1 diabetes can include carbohydrate counting, eating healthy foods, exercising regularly and maintaining a healthy weight. When monitoring your meals, you should concentrate on eating plenty of fruits, vegetables and whole grain foods. Try to stay away from refined carbohydrates such as candy and white bread as this will cause a peak in glucose levels. Watching what you eat means that you should count the amount of carbohydrates that you consume to estimate the amount of insulin you should take prior to eating a meal. Regular exercise will drop blood glucose levels as your cells convert glucose into usable energy which you use during exercise. Typically, you should aim for about 30 minutes of exercise a day for 3-4 hours per week. 
Researchers looked at first degree relatives (parent, sibling or child) and second degree relatives (grandparents, grandchildren, uncles, aunts, nephews, and nieces) of patients with type 1 diabetes. They screened the relatives for islet-cell antibodies and assessed the first-phase insulin response to intravenous glucose. If the subject was said to be at high risk, they were either assigned to the experimental group (parenteral insulin therapy) or to a control group where they underwent close observation.
	Knowing that obesity could be a contributing factor to this disease is a way that we could eventually prevent or decrease the incidence of diabetes. Proper diet consisting of healthy foods such fruits, vegetables and complex carbohydrates as well as encouraging children to exercise could potentially decrease risk of developing type 1 diabetes while also generally promoting a healthier lifestyle. 
