We live in a world that is governed by law and order, and everyone is expected to adhere to those laws in order to live a civilized life and to keep the peace among the populace. However, there are some citizens who do not follow these established laws and will partake in an action that violates the established code of conduct. While committing a crime is certainly a punishable offense, not all crimes are the same and each person who committed the crime will be penalized differently. Thus, every crime a person commits should be taken in a case-by-case basis and evaluated accordingly.  
Not every crime committed by a person is the same in severity according to the laws established by our constitution. Take for instance some of the most egregious acts that can be carried out by a person; murder or rape. Both of those heinous crimes are carried out with intent to do harm to another human being and require conscious thought and methodical execution of their plans. Now compare those crimes to someone who shoplifts a pack of gum from a gas station or a young kid who vandalizes a store front with spray paint. While the acts are still crimes, they are not nearly as damning or vile compared to more extreme ventures. A more severe crime necessitates a severe punishment while one less severe does not. Thus, not all crimes committed by a person are the same, each has differing levels of severity, and each crime carries its own punishment. 
Further, every person is inherently born with rights. Just because a person commits a crime does not mean that that person must forfeit all rights they had been previously afforded. Take for instance those in prison. Even inmates who have committed serious crimes still have rights, and while those rights are limited, they nonetheless still retain right to free speech, to not self-incriminate, and are afforded protection with their cells, ensuring there is civil hierarchy even while confined. Additionally, if a person commits a crime, they are not stripped of all rights indefinitely. After release from jail or prison, the individual gains back the right of freedom, and can walk a free man, attesting that once taken away, their rights can be restored after good behavior and time served. 
