In modern society, "paradise" is envisioned as a world in which everything is provided, and no one has to work. But in sixteenth- and seventeenth-century Europe, work was essential to happiness, while idleness created sin and social problems. Problems such as begging and thievery were blamed on the laziness of the poor, and punished severely. This issue is reflected in two utopic literary works from this time period, Thomas More's Utopia and Henry Neville's Isle of Pines. In these books, work is glorified and laziness is condemned, revealing the contemporary attitude that idleness was harmful to society.
In the "First Book" of Utopia, More describes idleness - in the rich and in the poor - as the root of England's problem with thievery. More admits that, without work, poor men often turn to stealing. 
However, More also rejects the contemporary idea that idleness is the root of poverty, by explaining how rich men keep the lower classes from making an honest living. 
More places the blame for the common people's poverty on the gentlemen by describing the rich as idle instead of the poor. 
Although More argues that idleness is the root of all the theft and begging that is then caused by the poor, he contrasts the contemporary view by calling the rich idle and blaming them for the crimes that the poor later commit. This view is a reaction against the harsh treatment of the poor in England. Idleness is still seen as the root of societal evil, but More's application of the term to both the rich and poor conveys his wish for social reform.
Unlike in Utopia, where idleness results in poverty, the idleness described in The Isle of Pines creates sin within the society. 
The inhabitants don't need to work for survival, but they prove themselves to be idle by choosing not to work towards scientific innovation, art, philosophy or other civilized activities. Instead, they turn towards animalistic entertainment, mostly in the form of sex.
Neville highlights the moral degeneration of the inhabitants through his use of religion. 
However, "hearing the bible read" has more than just a religious significance to the island inhabitants: it is the only form of society, and the only required activity, that is left. Therefore, coming to the community's bible reading is the islanders' only "work," which keeps them civilized and prevents them from falling completely into sin. 
Through the use of religion, Neville emphasizes how important it is for the inhabitants to have something to work for - even if it is a moral goal and not a physical one. The Isle of Pines shows how idleness can lead not only to societal problems, but to the moral problem of sin.
Though their treatment of idleness is slightly different, both Pines and Utopia glorify and encourage work. Utopia describes its people as enjoying their work. 
