There are other men of the time, other courtiers and educated elites who have at least a fraction of the knowledge and experience included in the Shakespeare canon; but even of these, she finds it impossible to believe that one man contained all the necessary credentials, saying “not this one” and not that one could have written Shakespeare alone.
Bacon’s harshest treatment of the supposed author is in his ridicule of his treatment of the plays. 
She argues that the lack effort to preserve the manuscripts shows a surprising lack of regard for one’s own artistic masterpieces. 
Bacon argues compellingly that the plays have objective value, the proof for which is in their continued preservation and appreciation by English speakers for hundreds of years after their publication. 
The publication of “Inquiry” was followed by some interest and curiosity, but mostly derision. Bacon had warned Emerson and others involved in its publication that it would be an introductory paper, written as a compelling argument but without historical evidence: but she promised that evidence would follow in the next sections of the publication.
Despite the publishing difficulties and her growing poverty, Bacon assented to the idea. The articles had gained her enough interest from a literary community that she had attracted a sponsor, a wealthy man named Charles Butler who encouraged her to travel to London to procure the historical evidence she would need to complete her book.
Bacon leapt at the chance to move to London, arriving there in 1853 with a promise to do research into her authorship claims. However, it was soon clear that she had no intention of using her new location to seek out historical texts either from London libraries or from Stratford itself. Instead, she secluded herself in her rented room, reading the text of the plays themselves to decode their political meaning and hidden ties to Francis Bacon.
Bacon would go on to spend several years in London: writing, meeting and becoming close with Nathaniel Hawthorne, and falling farther and farther into poverty and anti-social behavior. Hawthorne, then the American ambassador in London, was fascinated by Bacon’s claims about the Shakespearian authorship, but ultimately unconvinced. 
Despite his private disagreement with any of Bacon’s claims, Hawthorne used his considerable influence to find a publisher for Bacon, and even wrote a foreword to her book when it was eventually completed. In it, Hawthorne praised the author even as he distanced himself from her arguments, a position that left Bacon irate.
The Philosophy of Shakespeare’s Plays Unfolded, finally printed in London and Boston in 1857, moved on from the dismissal of William Shakspere contained in “Inquiry” and instead argued for Francis Bacon as the identity of the true author. Bacon claimed that the plays had been written by a secret society of Elizabethan noblemen and courtiers, operating anonymously so as not to incite the wrath of the Queen. Bacon saw the plays as seditious treatises on the power of the common man in politics and the need to move towards democracy. She placed Sir Walter Raleigh as the leader and founder of this group, and Sir Francis Bacon as the main intellect and author of the plays themselves. Bacon had no historical evidence for these claims except for cross-analysis between Francis Bacon’s and Shakespeare’s canons. 
