The following report discusses two significant issues in information policy, the digital divide and copyright, for the benefit of ARANZ, LIANZA, and Te Rōpū Whakahau. After these issues and current developments pertaining to them are introduced, key stakeholders in and policies affecting them are identified. The report concludes with general recommendations for advocacy efforts.
The digital divide is of increasing significance today. The internet is important for both social and civic participation; in New Zealand, the government aims to increase both the volume of information it makes available online and the proportion of government services which can be completed digitally.
Universal service and universal access are useful concepts within this discussion. Universal service refers to the availability and affordability of private connections to anybody who wants their own; universal access provides publicly-available services for community use. Current government initiatives are phrased in terms of universal access: the fibre roll-out, for instance, refers to fibre’s availability to schools and libraries. However, “fibre-to-the-premise” only provides potential connection, not actual public access. Some individuals may not be able to afford service; others may not have the skill or confidence to use it. Māori and Pasifika people, in particular, tend to have poorer access.
Those who advocate for community digital hubs (CDHs) believe that libraries can prevent those without their own access from being left out of digital social and civic participation. CDHs are collaborative community spaces in which anyone can access the information they need. The National Library offers to support libraries who wish to offer access through Aotearoa People’s Network Kaharoa (APNK), which provides libraries with regularly-maintained connections and hardware. However, while partners in this programme must offer free internet access, no support is provided for those who might struggle with this for budgetary reasons. This has led some libraries to decline APNK’s assistance.
Libraries do not need to participate in APNK to become CDHs, of course, but charging for access creates odd issues. Some libraries only offer free wireless access for customers who already have their own devices — so those who experience fewer monetary barriers to private service see few to no barriers to public access, while those who cannot afford private service must pay for public access.
Outreach efforts and training programmes are also important aspects of the provision of access. The libraries of Massey and Auckland Universities found that Māori and Pasifika students tended to avoid the use of libraries because they were seen as an unwelcoming part of pākehā culture, but successful outreach programmes and training sessions and community partnership’s increases these groups’ use of library services. In general, technological training is important for staff as well as users — the former must be familiar with systems if they are to assist the latter.
Archives are also affected by this issue. Many of them aim to increase access by digitising items and linking the online, but this is of little use if the greater public is unable to access their catalogues.
