As noted by Stephens and Franklin, catering to the broader community should diversify the library’s collection, not restrict it. The collection must remain balanced and present a wide spectrum of worldviews and experiences even if the community, or a particular contingent of it, are opposed to a particular viewpoint. That is not to say that the collection must include absolutely everything. Some materials simply will not meet the selection criteria; in addition, Morris noted that while selection certainly should not censor, it equally should not overexpose. He is quick to add that, nevertheless, the emphasis should be on what is to be purchased, not what should be avoided.
In achieving all of this, Morris and Bishop noted in their guides to collection management that it is important for the librarian and the processes they use to be as objective as possible; Bishop added that it is important for librarians to be aware of their biases and preferences, to better mitigate the risk of them colouring their collection management decisions.
	Along with remaining objective, librarians also need to plan ahead to be able to meet goals effectively and on time. The commonly accepted best practice of developing a formal collection management policy is intended to address both of these needs. 
In Tilke’s view, a written collection management policy is paramount for the sensible development of the collection. Morris argued that a written policy is the cornerstone of the library programme. Indeed, in laying out their recommendations and guidelines for collection management, he, ASLA and ALIA, the National Library of New Zealand’s School Library Service, and Stephens and Franklin do not so much suggest or recommend the adoption of a formal policy as they take it as a matter of course that a policy will be adopted, and treat it as all but a requirement for robust, efficient and effective collection management.
 Reichman described the ideal collection policy as brief and related to everyday practices. In his opinion, a completely objective process is unattainable, but solid collection management policy is one of the most reliable ways to mitigate arbitrary and biased decisions, a point on which Bishop agrees. Morris’s statement about how selection in general should focus on what should be purchased, not what should not, was anticipated by (among others) Reichman and Bishop, who state that selection criteria in a collection management policy should be positively-worded — that is, as inclusive as possible; focussed on the strengths for which materials will be included, rather than the weaknesses for which they will be rejected. 
A collection management policy can help to ensure that the collection maintains a level of consistency throughout staffing changes; it can also aid in communication with the school’s administration, parents, and the community.
The latter quality makes it easier for the librarian to justify decisions when called upon to do so, whether because the school administration has questions about weeding, or because a member of the community has challenged new material. A policy is even more helpful for challenges if, as frequently suggested, the collection management policy includes a formal procedure for challenged materia; some recommend the addition of a statement about students’ intellectual freedom. Reichman has stated that when the policy does not address intellectual freedom or challenges, or worse, does not exist, the mishandling of queries and challenges is not a risk, but an inevitability.
