To teach students how to manage their time, the strategy I chose was to have them maintain a regular checklist of their short-term and long-term goals and plans. They would write or modify their checklist on a weekly basis, or as needed, and check off completed goals as they go along. This teaches students how to manage their time because they are always aware of what they need to do, and how much time they have to do it. They always remain aware of issues that might come in conflict with their time, and they learn how to adjust accordingly before it is too late. For example, if they know on Thursday evening they have a soccer game, but they have a small assignment due on Friday, they will be aware of this conflict ahead of time. This strategy also has the psychological benefit of the student always feeling like they have achieved something whenever they are able to complete something on their checklist, and it makes time management a beneficial thing as it makes students feel accomplished and ideally reduces their stress. Additionally, it encourages students to regularly be introspective about their progress, and they will learn how to take charge and constantly set goals in all aspects of their lives without significant outside guidance. I believe my plan to implement this strategy is likely to be successful because it teachers students on how to be thorough in considering their goals and plans by having initial brainstorming sessions and group discussions. These help students bring things to mind that they might not have if they did not get the opportunity to listen to the ideas of others. However, I would gradually move them towards completing their checklists independently as they developed their own metacognitive abilities with practice and experience. 
	To have students make a plan to complete and return assignments successfully, the strategy I chose was to have them maintain a planner. By having them always add to their planner when they are given an assignment, project, or piece of homework, students have a way of remembering everything without having to rely entirely on their memory. Secondly, it contributes to their ability to plan the time they have to spend on assignments because they are able to create a visual record that includes longer term assignments as well as daily ones. In visual form, they can see exactly how much time they have to complete their work. Also, by having them sign their entries to mark their completion, students have additional motivation to complete their work because it gives them a sense of accomplishment whether the assignment is major or not. Furthermore, for those students who fail to complete assignments, having to design a plan that will help them complete their work in the future works because they are signing their name to a specific commitment. Students appreciate when you give them some control over their own decisions, and most will try to fulfill their own promises. I believe my implementation strategy would be successful because	 students would be guided at first on how to do it correctly, with oversight, before being expected to follow the expectations set forth independently. When I was in middle school, we had assigned planners for the first time, but it never went further than giving us planners, and a typical percentage of students struggled with completing homework. My strategy involves adding a greater degree of personal responsibility by having students sign their names to their completed entries, as well as directly getting parents involved in knowing what is due and when. This integrates the planner more deeply in an overall policy of expecting students to be personally responsible for their work and completing their goals. 
