	There are three major learning goals within the context of this lesson on life and language in Ancient Egypt. My first learning goal is based around social studies. This learning goal is that I expect students to come out of the lesson with a good understanding of the basic life of Ancient Egyptians and how that varied depending on their class, including how it impacted their education and the course of their lives, what they wore, what their houses were like, and also their language of communication and how that was interconnected with careers, education, and social class. The second learning goal is that students will continue to demonstrate grade-level or higher levels of reading comprehension because the text chosen is at-grade level, and they are expected to be able to answer questions about the text, including questions that show that they are able to make inferences based on what it said within the book. The third learning goal is within the arts, and students will demonstrate that they will be able to see the artistic nature of the Ancient Egyptian system of writing by putting care into a piece of artwork that accurately represents a translation of their name. 
	There are no local standards at this school, particularly in the social studies or art, as it is an individual charter school, not a full school district, and they instead require teachers to follow the state standards in these subjects, otherwise allowing them some freedom to choose their lesson topics and lesson designs. There are local standards for reading comprehension instruction, though it only applies to the specific language arts classes which use the “Treasures” Reading Program curriculum designed by McGraw-Hill. When integrated into other disciplines, teachers are not required to follow specific local standards for reading comprehension.
	At the state level, standards are limited at this grade level for social studies. My lesson uses the standard of “apply sources of historical information” in regards to world history. Within my lesson, they engage with learning resources for historical information about Egyptian life and have to apply that knowledge towards class discussions, an independent practice worksheet, and their final assessment. At the national level, the National Center for History in the Schools suggests these national standards for world history for grades K-4. Lessons should be built around “selected attributes and historical development of various societies in Africa, the Americas, Asia, and Europe”. My lesson is about the culture of an important civilization in Africa, meeting that standard.
	Pennsylvania has no standards at all for visual arts at this grade level or before this grade level, and neither does the common core. For this lesson, I turned to the closest border state to my location, the state of West Virginia. In West Virginia, a visual arts standard for this grade level is “Identify how the visual arts have a history and specific relationship to culture”. There are national standards suggested by the National Art Education Association. An applicable standard for this grade level suggested for them is that students will understand “the visual arts in relation to history and cultures”. This lesson discusses how Ancient Egyptians included artistic flourishes to their forms of communication, and it includes an art project where students learn how to apply this knowledge to write their name using Egyptian hieroglyphs in an artistic fashion. Accordingly, I believe both the state and national standard apply to this visual arts lesson goal.
