My instructional unit is in the subject of mathematics and is based on a standardized curriculum called Investigations in Number, Data, and Space for kindergarten by Pearson Education. My instructional unit encompassed Unit 2 of the kindergarten Investigations curriculum called Counting and Comparing. Investigations is a curriculum that intends students to construct their own understandings by engaging with a lot of manipulatives and working within small groups to rotate between different activities every day. Many activities will be repeated or brought back over time to refresh and review key concepts and to ensure that a class does not move on until concepts are mastered. The skills learned are all interconnected, so bringing back activities multiple times will help students make connections between what they have previously engaged with and what new skills they are learning on any given day. Due to the fact that it is a kindergarten curriculum, the requirements to write are primarily limited to writing numbers and symbols to record their work, as many students are still learning how to write numbers and struggle with writing most words. This unit begins to scaffold writing words later on by having students record names of other students, but it gives them a model from which to copy. However, due to the grade level, the inability of most students to write many words, and the curriculum’s focus on completing activities to learn math skills, assessments are primarily based on observation and on recording sheets that authentically record the results of their discoveries during activities. Pre and post-assessments are observation-based checklists that record whether students are meeting the benchmarks required by the curriculum. There is one checklist for each learning goal, and the checklists identical for both the pre- and post-assessment. These checklists are designed to check off whether students are meeting the benchmarks required by the learning goals overall, and they are not aligned to any one activity. For each checklist, there are multiple activities where students could demonstrate that they are meeting or not meeting these benchmarks. Results are recorded as students engage with the activities without teacher interference. Generic copies of these checklists are attached separately. 
There are also formative ongoing checklists for many of the activities where notes are taken on how students are progressing, and these ongoing checklists are designed by the curriculum writers themselves. These ongoing checklists are not measurable, but rather are designed to track ongoing progress as activities are repeated over several days and help give myself (or other teachers) notes on where to focus instruction if additional modeling or review is needed to help students. These checklists help clarify which aspects students are understanding and which ones they are struggling with, and how. 
There are also formative assessments in the form of recording sheets for most activities where students engage with the manipulatives, determine their answer, and then show what they know by recording a visual or numeric representation of their work. These formative assessments come from within the curriculum itself as they are within the student activity book that comes with the curriculum. 
