Talk aloud to the group about the images you have in your head when you read a passage like that, and ask them to close their eyes as you read it again. Tell them to visualize it and imagine Sarah walking in the rain, experiencing those things. Ask students what they thought of, and see if they talk about the sounds of being in the rain, the sounds of thunder, the image of raindrops hitting the puddles or the clothing. After they have shared their mental images and have shown understanding of the concept, you can move on to the new text. 
As you read, stop to ask them to visualize what they are hearing. Have them close their eyes and re-read certain passages that lend themselves to imaging. Ask them to share their descriptions of what they imagined to check for understanding. Do this at the end of the text as well, and you should have them share their images with the rest of the group, leading a discussion about what they pictured. 
It is an example of where it would be appropriate to break to ask students to form a mental image. The image follows a passage where the child is describing all the different types of noises he is hearing from the closer, as the tiger is playing the tuba, tap- dancing, and playing the drums at the same time. As you have already modeled how to visualize a passage with a sample paragraph, this is a great place to similarly ask students to close 
their eyes and imagine being in bed, trying to sleep, and hearing these sounds come blasting out of their closets. Ask them to imagine how they would feel and to hear the sounds in their head. Call on students to talk about their mental image and how it made them feel. 
The story ends with the tiger jumping into bed with the boy, happy that he isn’t alone in the dark anymore. The boy is finally greeted with silence, only to hear suddenly increasing snoring from the tiger, and the boy is still unable to sleep, but he is happy that the tiger isn’t scared anymore. Ask the students to visualize the image of the tiger cuddled up in bed and ask them to imagine how they would feel if they were the tiger or the boy. Let the students discuss their images with one another. After this discussion, you could consider having them draw a representation of what they imagined, to further reinforce their comprehension. 
