	As an element of the language arts, viewing is a receptive one. It is similar to listening in that it is done from an extremely young age. Children with sight constantly take in visual images, and they learn to interpret them through repeated experiences and by association. If children see a particular image and then associate it with a particular reaction or sound or word, they will make those connections and build upon them, in the same way that they make connections between words they hear and different objects and actions. Visual images are often accompanied by sounds and text, especially when children watch moving images like television or movies, and these experiences develop together. Over time, as they are exposed to a greater variety of experiences, it becomes easier for children to assimilate new images they view because they can connect it to what they have previously seen. As a language art, viewing becomes more complex as students reach elementary school age and have to start interpreting maps and charts, where visuals are accompanied by text and increasingly complex data. Elementary age students are also exposed to educational films, videos, and computer programs where moving images have to be processed alongside voiceovers and on-screen text, again merging their level of viewing comprehension alongside their listening skills and their reading skills. As students get older, they will also begin to view objects that have subjective interpretations, like artistic photos and paintings and historical artifacts. They will learn how to recognize items that cannot be understood in a black-and-white literal fashion, and their viewing skills will allow them to understand the points of view or artistic ideas of other people.
	Visual representation is the final element of the language arts, and it is closely connected with the other expressive language arts like speaking and writing. Visual representation can begin from a very early age as children are given crayons or other drawing tools to use, or even different objects like blocks or legos. These very young children will draw scribbles or even very unrefined objects that are meant to represent people or objects or ideas. These skills become more refined as the adults or others around them recognize the meaning behind certain drawings and encourage them, much in the same way that writing and speaking is improved as children learn more effective ways to communicate. These visual representations can also be accompanied by text as children learn how to communicate with both forms together. I recall my younger brother as a toddler, as he drew figures that were meant to represent our family, though they were difficult to recognize. With his own limited writing ability, he sought to clarify who each figure was by writing “Mom,” “Dad,” “E” for myself, and “T” for him in very large, shaky text. He was seeking to communicate and wanted to use multiple ways of doing so to make his meaning clear. With time and experience, children refine these methods of communication as they seek to be clear about what meaning they are trying to convey. As children research elementary school age, their methods of visual representation become more refined as teachers expose them to more books, visual aids, videos, and other forms of media. As students develop their reading and writing skills, visual representation grows alongside them. Whereas very young children might represent their ideas largely through sketches and drawings or other attempts at visual representation, elementary age students will increasingly use more refined visual representations to complement their writing, and the visuals will be more easily understood by teachers and adults. When interpreting a book, students might draw illustrations to represent their thoughts alongside a written book report or synopsis of the content. In the early grades as well, students will be introduced to graphic organizers and charts, and students will learn how to represent and describe what they are learning through these organized, visual formats.
