The pre- and post-assessments are identical and have a checklist for each learning goal. The checklist for the first learning goal has six benchmarks, and students either meet or do not meet the benchmark based on their observed performance. These benchmarks are aligned with the activities during the curriculum in such a way that it is clear whether students are meeting them or not. During the post-assessment, students are expected to meet at least 5 of 6 benchmarks. For learning goal 2, the checklist has five benchmarks, and students are expected by the post-assessment to meet at least four of the benchmarks. The benchmarks are interconnected in such a way that if they were not meeting more than one of the benchmarks, they likely are not meeting any of them. Similarly for learning goal 3, students are expected to meet at least four out of the five benchmarks. Student performance will also be measured in terms of progress made between pre- and post-assessment, where applicable, and data on benchmarks that are not met will be used to have additional small group practice sessions or whole group reviews, where needed. 
Every activity as part of this unit has a formative assessment that can be collected and graded with a measurable score. Some of these formative assessments will be completed multiple times because activities are repeated during small group centers over the course of the unit. These results will be tracked in a spreadsheet over the course of the unit to see if there is progress, regression, or simply consistency across multiple days. Since the spreadsheets will be organized by learning goal rather than by each activity, it will allow me to see whether students are struggling with individual activities rather than any particular learning goal in particular. For example, if students are showing that they understand the Ordering Names activity very well, but not Ordering Cards, even though they teach the same learning goal of comparing and ordering quantities, it gives me evidence that they do not understand a specific aspect about the Ordering Cards activity instead of not understanding how to compare and order quantities as a whole. 
One formative assessment that I will use to measure student progress is the recording sheet for the Longer and Shorter Hunt. During the activity, students will make a connecting cube tower of ten, and then they will leave their seats to gather items around the classroom to bring back to their seat to compare to their tower of ten to decide which is longer and which is shorter. They then record their findings on a recording sheet that is divided into two categories. They draw pictures of shorter items in the shorter column and pictures of the longer items in the longer column. Students are also tasked with writing the starting letter of each item to clarify what what it is; for example, an M for marker. After each center, I will collect the recording sheet and grade whether they have sorted items into the correct categories, and while the total number of items will vary depending on the student, the goal is for 75% correct of higher to indicate understanding of comparing and sorting based on length. This activity will be completed on several different days, so when I track results, it will indicate whether students have made progress and whether an explicit review needs to be done to help students meet this learning goal. 
