	To stay organized, the strategy I have devised is effective because it combats basic problems of procrastination. From the beginning of the year, students will learn that when they are finished with something, it must return to where they originally got it from. For their own supplies and books, they are able to make the choice of how exactly to organize it, but it must remain consistent and neat, and they will have specific time goals to achieve when they are asked to get a certain book or set of supplies ready. Students will learn the benefits of keeping their personal effects tidy because they will learn through experience how much easier it is when they can find something they need without needing to search for long periods of time. I believe my implementation would be successful because it requests that students justify their organization methods and asks them to consider why it works or does not work for them. This would be connected to real life results, such as how long it takes them to transition to a new subject or assignment. If it takes them a significant period of time to find their supplies or books for the next section of class, then that would be the type of thing they would be expected to consider when coming up with a revised strategy. In this way, their initial organization would be guided, but students would be expected to independently consider how it is working for them over time and if they could improve their methods. 
	My strategy for having students record their grades would be effective because many students would be motivated by creating a visual record. The results of assignments, quizzes, and other work would be seen in context with past achievements, and they would easily be able to see progress, or lack thereof, in certain areas over time. Many students would strive to improve so that they could add positive markers to their picture chart (whether happy stickers or smiley faces or other markers of their choosing), and to see the visual record of their progress improve. It helps students think about assignments and quizzes in terms of the bigger picture of the entire school year. My implementation of this strategy would work because students would learn how to make and complete their charts by way of modeling. They would be able to customize them in a way that made the use of the charts more enjoyable and personalized, but it would be organized in such a way that they would be able to clearly see their progress over time. They would learn how to use their charts as a tool to guide their own personal evaluations of how they have been doing, due to my strategy of having them use the chart to write introspective paragraphs about how they feel when they look over their grade chart.
