According to research, summarizing is often considered the most important strategy for effective comprehension. It not only helps reinforce memory of the content, but it helps a student determine the most important details and the overall structure of the text 
To teach students how to summarize, you should begin by modeling. Talk to me to find out about a book that the students are very familiar with, and you could write or orally retell a summary of the events or information contained in that book. This summary will be a short one that contains the main idea, theme, or events of that previously read text, talking about what happened to the people of the text or other information contained within. You could also draw an image that summarizes the events of that text to go alongside your written or oral summary. Let the students know that they will be giving a summary of their own after the new text is read. 
After modeling an example of a summary, you would begin by using a text that you could read aloud to the group. Ideally, they would be following along, either with their own copies of the book, or through a large print version of the book that they can read along with, or through a projected version. 
At midway sections through the book, you would ask guiding questions. Ask students to recount what has happened so far. Who is the main character? What has he or she experienced? What problem is he or she facing? Alternatively, if it was a non- fiction book about spiders, you might ask about facts that the book gave about spiders. Questions like, “How many legs did the book say spiders have?” “What are examples of what spiders eat?” Also ask open-ended questions about what students have learned so far, so that they have to answer without the memory prompts of specific questions like “How many legs⋯” Open-ended questions are a greater test of what the student remembers about the text. Questions like this can be asked at varying points throughout the reading of the text, whenever there is a logical break in the events or narrative of the text. 
A fuller summary can be obtained at the end of the text. Depending on the size of the group and the length of the text, you can ask each individual student to retell the text in their own words. After they have finished retelling the story, you could prompt for additional information by asking similar questions to those that you would have asked at midway points. You could also have them draw a picture about what happened, depending on the text, or have them write a short paragraph about what happened. If you have them draw a picture or write a short paragraph, an excellent idea would be to bring the group back together to share their paragraphs and pictures with each other, so that they can learn from one another. 
At this point in the story, the tiger has done several different things that has created enough noise to keep the child awake, including eating potato chips, bouncing a ball, doing cartwheels, and playing various types of instruments. The child has increasingly more upset reactions to the tiger’s actions as the story progresses as well. At this point, you can ask students to recount what the basic plot of the story is, who the characters are, and what the different actions and reactions of the tiger and the boy have been so far. Begin by asking general questions like “Who are the characters? What have they done?” to see what they can remember before prompting for more specific details. Those prompts could include, “What are some of the different ways the tiger made a lot of noise?” Since the written sound effects are a prominent part of the story, the students could also be prompted to remember what some of those sound effects were as well. 
