All of the assessments authentically measure student learning because all of them concern the activities that the curriculum is built around. The assessments do not have students complete an activity and then follow that by completing a multiple choice quiz or true or false questions that are related to the same learning goals. Instead, students engage with their materials, record their work, and their work is then assessed. Students are also assessed by observations and through questioning while they work on their normal activities. The assessments, including the pre- and post-assessments, always assess students in the normal contexts within they work, typically small group centers where students engage with manipulatives and work with their fellow group members. This appropriately measures student work in the way that it was actually taught, and the curriculum is such that they are constructing their own understanding of these key concepts through discovery. Accordingly, I measure their success as they discover. 
At their core, the assessments within this unit of this curriculum are designed around the fact that students are typically very young and new to school. Many of them cannot write and are unfamiliar with many traditional forms of tests and quizzes. Accordingly, the main assessments are done via observation and the formative assessments are also done via observation and through recording sheets that are designed to not require students to write many words. Instead, they can write numbers and use visual representations. While the curriculum is standardized and these adaptations are built in, this was also accurate to what I knew of my students prior to teaching my unit. I worked with these adaptations and added additional ones as needed. For example, there was a lot of explicit modeling done under the document camera, projected on the Smartboard, of the steps students need to take to complete recording sheets. Also, from the pre-assessment and from general knowledge of my students, it was known that a lot of students struggled with writing the numbers 1-12. Clear instruction was given about using number lines as a model to writing the numbers, and students who have less developed fine motor skills were aided by giving them written numbers to trace and practice when necessary. Additionally, many activities and their corresponding assessments lent themselves to scaffolding for most students who would be overwhelmed with an activity on the first day. Activities like Grab & Count: Ordering and Ordering Names were easily scaffolded by having students compare and order two quantities on the first day, three on the second day, and four on the third day and onwards. Adaptations were made for gifted students by allowing them to do the full amount on the first day, if they could do so. 
Much of the work of aligning the learning goals, objectives and assessments was already done within the curriculum itself. My learning goals and objectives are adaptations of what the focus points of the curriculum, and the formative assessments come from the curriculum itself. They are formative assessments that assess how students do on each activity, and the objectives reflect what students should be able to do at the end of an activity. The pre- and post-assessment was written by me, but it is based on the benchmarks required at the end of unit by the curriculum, based on what students did during the activities in the unit. It simply requires observing students during the same activities a final time, recording which benchmarks they have or have not met, and then analyzing the data. 
