The strategy for this is to teach them how to make weekly checklists of what their daily and weekly goals are. These goals would not only relate to in-school items, but also in regards to things at home, extra-curriculars, and other things that they have planned. This teaches them the intricacies of goal setting and learning about the fact that there are both short term goals and longer term goals. Each week they need to plan their week, and they would be given time to be introspective about how and when they should tackle what they have to do. They would be in charge of making their own lists, and they would not be explicitly told what should go on that list. At the end of the week, they would be given time to evaluate and rate their own progress, and they would also be asked to consider whether or not their list was comprehensive or whether or not their original list was missing important goals. I would implement this strategy by guiding them for the first few weeks of the semester on how to brainstorm their goals for the week and how to fill out their lists. For example, we would have group discussions where students would discuss what they are doing that week, both in school and out of school, and by talking amongst one another, they will learn what they should add to their list and how to add things to their list and think about them independently. I would use the scaffolding technique by reducing the group discussions over a short period of time, but continuing to discuss the checklists with students one on one until I know they have the hang of doing it independently.

Students would be given a planner, and they would be taught how to always track their homework and their longer term assignments. They would be given daily time to fill in their planner and to write about their progress. When they complete an assignment, they will be required to sign their name to mark its completion. This gives the student the feeling of satisfaction that they have made progress, even if it was a smaller assignment or regular homework. Either way, it increases their enthusiasm because they will feel that they have done well. Students who don’t complete an assignment will have to instead write a short letter explaining what they plan to do to make sure they get future assignments done, and they will sign their name as a promise to follow their new plan. By coming up with their own plan and signing their name to it, they are being introspective about how they can do better and making a commitment to improve. All students would also be required to show their planners to their parents or guardians on at least a weekly basis so that their parents are aware of the work they have to complete, and it would be requested that a parent or guardian sign the planner. I would implement this strategy by ensuring that every student has a planner and showing them how to add details about their assignment due dates to the planner. At the beginning of the year, we would do it together as a class so they could model the example of what they should add to the planner, and I would take the time to check their entries. When the students mastered filling out their planners as a group, we would switch to having them complete their planners in-class independently, but I would circle around the room to check that they are not missing any major assignments in their planner. Students would also learn that I would be checking planners on at least a weekly basis to see their signatures and the signatures of their guardians or parents. 
