This brings me to my next point, as an important step in holding factories accountable would be to ensure that there are consequences for not adhering to company policies. If there are no consequences, then there is also no reason for factories to change their processes, or to begin to treat their workers any differently. Apple’s managers and officers need to create a situation in which foreign managers are afraid to go against the company’s guidelines and policies, for fear of losing their jobs and being blacklisted among American corporations. Undoubtedly, if Apple is going to expect foreign managers to adhere to certain guidelines, they also have to ensure that the manager is given the opportunity to familiarize themselves with the policies and guidelines. Apple, Inc. could also create a program that helps train employees, as well as teach them about their own rights as an employee. Apple, Inc. could then offer a method by which foreign employees could report human rights violations in their workplaces, such as providing all employees with slips they can mail in if they need to file a complaint. Apple needs to ensure that employees can do so without suffering consequences, as their identity and the details of the submitted complaint can remain confidential. If employees know their rights and if they are able to communicate with corporate, this would also discourage foreign managers from abusing the employees, or otherwise violating their rights in any other manner.

	Ultimately, it is crucial for Apple, Inc. to address diversity issues within their corporation, whether these are issues that exist on an international basis, or whether they are issues that are specifically occurring within certain foreign factories. The corporation is responsible for the health, safety, and wellbeing of their employees, especially in instances where employees are being treated unfairly. In other instances, surrounding common issues such as racial diversity in the workplace, or equal pay for women and racial minorities, addressing these issues is the only way to move into the future. Refusing to address domestic diversity issues is only going to be met with a great deal of backlash throughout the United States, while offering all employees equal pay, or promoting a more diverse group of leaders, is exactly how the company is going to garner respect and continue to grow and succeed in today’s society and today’s economy. I believe that more and more citizens are becoming aware of the injustices that minority groups are facing, both in and out of the workplace. This also means that oppressed groups are becoming more aware regarding what type of treatment they personally deserve, as human beings. No one deserves to feel that they are less deserving of opportunities or of adequate compensation for their hard work. As so many people are dependent on their employers, employers need to prove that they are willing to treat everyone equally, and that they are trustworthy and humanitarian. If employers cannot do that, not only are they likely to lose their employees’ loyalty, but also their customers’ loyalty and respect. As a result, it is clear that developing ways to effectively and ethically address diversity issues throughout an organization is not only the right and moral thing to do, but it is also a good business move.
