	Secondly, as of 2015, it is clear that Apple’s CEO, Tim Cook, is dedicated to diversifying the organization. 
 This information is promising, as it suggests that Apple, Inc. is truly making active efforts towards achieving a diverse workforce. It is important to note that the organization is aware of the efforts that they need to continue putting forth, in order to achieve the ultimate goal, which would involve diversity data that displays nearly equal percentages from all racial and ethnic groups, as well as among males and females. 
	Thirdly, Apple, Inc. offers both maternity and paternity leave that covers a variety of situations. Mothers who have given birth are eligible for the largest benefits within the category, as they could earn up to 18 weeks of paid time, plus an additional six weeks of unpaid time away from work. Apple, Inc. also offers benefits for parents of newborns, who have not given birth, or parents who have acquired a newly adopted or fostered child. This includes up to six weeks of paid time, and an additional six weeks of unpaid time. While these benefits may not truly offer enough time for some parents to feel that they are ready to return to work, it is more time than the majority of other companies in the United States offer. Federal law, in accordance with the Family and Medical Leave Act only requires that employers grant new parents 12 weeks of unpaid leave. Paid leave is helpful perk for businesses to offer, as well as additional time for a mother who has given birth and may need to recover physically, in additional to bonding with her new baby.
	Lastly, as of 2015, Apple has offered to freeze eggs for female employees, among other fertility, adoption, and surrogacy assistance benefits. The average cost for harvesting and freezing eggs is $10,000, while it costs about $500 a year to keep them frozen. This can be an extremely helpful benefit for couples that wish to pursue In Vitro Fertilization, due to fertility issues or other factors. Egg freezing can also be helpful for women who are suffering from illnesses or diseases that may result in the removal of their reproductive organs. In turn, they may need to have their eggs frozen in order to be able to conceive via surrogate. Some individuals feel that organizations offering egg-freezing options are only doing so to benefit themselves, as it encourages women to feel more secure in waiting longer to have children, or in utilizing other options rather than giving birth to a child on their own. However, a woman who suffers from fertility issues, or other disorders that can interfere with conception or pregnancy, will likely be happy to utilize such benefits. Additionally, choosing to have an established career prior to starting a family is a choice that many women are making for themselves. Unfortunately, fertility levels do begin to decline as a woman ages, and more and more couples seem to be suffering with fertility challenges. Medical insurance also does not cover fertility treatments, because having a baby is not deemed to be a medical necessity. As a result, many couples are stuck to cope with the pain of wanting a child, but not being able to afford expensive fertility inventions and treatments. The perks that Apple is offering help provide women with greater body autonomy, as well as more options for families that might otherwise be inaccessible or unaffordable.  
