	When attempting to determine how much an individual is learning, and whether or not they are retaining and comprehending the required information, it is important for leaders to maintain realistic expectations. I believe that it is possible to gauge whether or not someone is learning based on differences in their behavior, and based on whether or not they are beginning to perform tasks that they were previously unable to perform on their own. However, it is unrealistic to expect progress to happen rapidly, particularly when there is a great deal of new information that the employees are expected to learn. Any amount of progress or positive change in behavior should be recognized and positively reinforced, so as to let employees know that their efforts are being noticed and appreciated. This will lead to increased motivation among employees to continue to work harder and learn faster, which ultimately benefits the organization as a whole, and starts them off on the right foot to continue to feel motivated to work for the organization. Similarly, any negative reinforcement should be communicated in a clear and constructive manner, so as to provide the employee with an additional learning opportunity, rather than causing them to feel discouraged.

	In order to lead an effective employee training program within a successful learning organization, leaders need to promote a growth-driven, encouraging, and nurturing environment. Leaders need to be patient and available to consistently train their employees, and need to maintain an open line of communication with their trainees. Leaders need to keep in mind that different people learn differently, and therefore, different mediums for learning, including auditory, visual, and written, should be provided to trainees. Additionally, leaders need to be mindful not to flood employees with too much stimuli or information at once, which can impede their ability to effectively process the new information. Additional learning aids, such as mnemonic devices can be utilized, and leaders need to remain mindful of the employees’ current educational levels so as not to immediately confuse them with complex terminology. Similarly, leaders should remain patient and realistic, as well as regard mistakes as learning opportunities. Any amount of progress or positive change in behavior should be positively reinforced, so as to let employees know that their efforts are noticed and appreciated. This will lead to increased motivation among employees to continue to work harder and learn faster, which ultimately benefits the organization as a whole, and starts employees off on the right track towards feeling personally invested in working towards organizational goals. Similarly, any negative reinforcement should be communicated in a clear and constructive manner, so as to provide the employee with additional learning opportunities, rather than causing them to feel excessively pressured or discouraged. Applying the aforementioned cognitive psychology concepts and principles can be extremely helpful towards developing an effective employee training program, as well as running a long-term successful learning organization.
