It is well known that certain sounds can drown out other sounds, such as music drowning out the sound of someone’s voice. 
When study participants listened to certain sounds through headphones, researchers noticed that participants’ ability to process visual information was suppressed. This suggests that the systems in our brains that process auditory and visual stimuli are actually closely linked, and dependent upon one another. This means that if we are in a workplace environment or anywhere else, and there is a lot of noise, we may also be less likely to effectively process visual information, such as an image we are attempting to view.

	There are various learning strategies that are often utilized by children, which can be equally effective for adult learners. One method of memorizing and recalling information, which can effectively be utilized both in childhood and in adulthood, involves the usage of mnemonic devices. A mnemonic device can be an acronym, a rhyme, or chunking, which involves breaking up larger pieces of information into smaller parts. A prime example of chunking is the way in which we break up phone numbers with parenthesis and dashes, rather than simply listing a series of numbers. Breaking up phone numbers in this way makes them easier to memorize, to visualize, and to dial. 
	Children often utilize mnemonics, such as Please Excuse My Dear Aunt Sally, which is popularly used in order to help children recall that mathematical equations should be performed in the order of: parenthesis, exponents, multiplication, division, addition, and then subtraction. Similarly, many individuals who got into the habit of utilizing this particular mnemonic in childhood, still call upon it in adulthood when met with a relevant mathematical equation. Therefore, I believe that there is no real reason why learning aids, such as mnemonics, should be overlooked in an adult learning situation. Organizations can utilize acronyms, rhymes, and chunking, in order to help trainees more quickly and easily memorize new information. Additionally, utilizing mnemonics can help adults recall important information, while minimizing the risk that some of that information would be overlooked or forgotten. This is because there is a pattern to the information, as opposed to attempting to memorize seemingly random bits of information.

	When overseeing an employee training program in an organization, it is important for leaders to keep in mind that new employees possess different levels of professional vocabulary, and may have differences in their abilities to effectively comprehend new information. For example, some professional terminology may be difficult for new trainees to comprehend, while organizational leaders may be so accustomed to utilizing such terminology, that they may not even immediately realize that their vocabulary is not making sense to their employees. Direct theory suggests that when we are communicating with others, we have to be mindful of what interests them and what they can and cannot comprehend. For example, if a medical doctor is speaking to a patient, it is crucial for them to keep in mind that the patient is not aware of complex medical terminology. Utilizing such terminology would only serve to confuse and frighten the patient. Therefore, the doctor needs to tailor their speech to fit the patient’s level of understanding, by simplifying and explaining the situation while utilizing more common language, rather than using complex medical terms. However, when the doctor is speaking with their colleagues, it is entirely appropriate for them to utilize professional medical terminology. Similar scenarios can occur through varying career paths, as the majority of professions utilize some level of terminology that others may not understand. Therefore, when training employees, it is important to slowly acquaint employees to any vocabulary they may not be familiar with, rather than expecting them to already be up to date with the terminology that is utilized within that particular organization.
