 	Digital advertisements can be beneficial towards attracting consumers who frequently utilize technology, whether it is for business or for pleasure. Digital ads can be found on websites, such as in banners or on the sides or bottoms of webpages. Digital ads can also be included in emails that tend to be sent to a mailing list of consumers who have been added to the list either by showing interest in the product, or by showing interest in a similar product. Sometimes ads also pop up while we are playing games on our phones. These types of ads tend to affectively target individuals who spend a lot of time on various websites, or who shop online. Digital ads also often include links to reviews about the product, or to a webpage where the product itself can be purchased. This is one prominent method with which marketers target impulsive buyers. Television commercials can also fall under the category of digital advertisements. Although most people tend to dislike commercial breaks while watching their favorite movies or television shows, individuals will watch a commercial if it catches their attention, or if it has to do with a topic or product that they are particularly interested in. 


	I have noticed that the majority of iPhone ads are generally somewhat minimalistic. It appears that they are targeted towards individuals who already know quite a bit about the iPhone. The ads do not generally readily explain the iPhone’s features, although there are videos dedicated to marketing the iPhone’s camera features, and the new iPhone X’s facial recognition software. For an older individual, who may not yet know why an iPhone could serve as a helpful addition into their lives, I think that some ads could be dedicated towards expressing how simple it is to use an iPhone, and the many functions that an iPhone can perform with minimal expertise required. One of the ways this could be accomplished is through a television commercial that explains why the iPhone is so simple to use. I think that this would appeal to older individuals who may not yet be particularly familiar with how a smartphone works.
	Another ad option through which Apple could help advertise the ease of using an iPhone is to highlight some of the iPhone’s most practical and easy-to-use features in a magazine or newspaper ad. Rather than simply displaying a photograph of an iPhone accompanied by some basic information, the advertisement could display images of the notes application with a grocery checklist, or the calendar application displaying some scheduled appointments. Apple could also choose to display how the iPhone’s FaceTime feature works, which could appeal to parents or grandparents who want to see their adult children or grandchildren more often. The iPhone’s clean design may appeal to older individuals who may be interested in transitioning to a smart phone, but are worried that it may be complicated. The iPhone has the most simple software design on the smartphone market, which is ideal for those who are not particularly tech savvy. 
