	Upon researching articles discussing organizational change, I came across several articles focused on the time period in which Satya Nadella acquired the CEO position at Microsoft, in 2014. This is a prime example of how the right leadership can create positive organizational change, and have a massive impact on the overall wellbeing of an organization. It is said that Satya Nadella tripled Microsoft’s stock price, since he began working with the company. Prior to this, Microsoft had not been seeing any growth for quite sometime, so Nadella made the judgment to shift the company’s focus. They gave up on manufacturing new Windows phones, and began to focus on software, and on profiting from recurring subscriptions. Among other achievements, the company released Office for iPad, created the Edge browser, and even purchased LinkedIn for $26.2 billion. Ultimately, it appears that Satya Nadella abides by a transformational leadership style, as he was able to inspire change throughout the organization and completely turn things around for the Microsoft Corporation. Transformational leadership is about inspiring people to achieve bigger and better things, as well as improving employee morale, and encouraging autonomy among organizational members. Satya Nadella also improved the company culture by promoting a “growth mindset,” as he calls it, as well as encouraging inclusion and diversity. 
	The second scenario I discovered through my research, regarding organizational change, discusses the changes that Jeff Bezos, the founder and CEO of the Amazon Corporation, has made and continues to make to the organization. These changes have led, and are continuing to lead to massive organizational growth and success, as Amazon continues to expand to working within more and more different industries. When the corporation was first founded, in 1995, they only sold books. Therefore, it is interesting to consider that Amazon now sells over 20 million different products, on an international basis. While I have always personally enjoyed shopping on Amazon, I was surprised to discover that Amazon is also making movies, and Bezos’ team took home three Oscars, in 2017, for their feature films. Amazon also has plans to incorporate additional services in the future, such as delivering packages via drones, and physical stores where there are no lines or cashiers as purchases are automatically charged to customers’ Amazon accounts. It is probable that Jeff Bezos’ success with Amazon stems from his consistent focus on how to make customers happy. At conference tables, Bezos sometimes even leaves an empty seat open and informs everyone in the room that they should consider that seat as being occupied by their customer, who is “…the most important in the room”. 
Satya Nadella and Jeff Bezos are both transformational leaders, and that seems to be key to the drastic and successful changes that they have both been able to facilitate throughout their organizations. However, if I were personally placed into the change management team within either of these scenarios, I probably would employ a coaching leadership or servant leader approach. This is because I would feel most comfortable, and most fulfilled, working with subordinates in order to help them adjust to organizational changes, as well as to grow and learn throughout the process. I believe that, while a transformational leader may be doing the most seemingly impressive work, there have to also be leaders lower down in the hierarchy dedicated helping individual employees, on a regular basis, to become as successful as they can possibly be. This includes providing guidance and support throughout large organizational changes, which often occur throughout corporations in order to keep up with today’s demanding economy.
