	It can be extremely helpful for businesses to set up programs that allow customers to provide feedback regarding the products. In the case of Apple’s iPhone, I think that it could be productive for Apple to send emails to consumers following a purchase, which includes a link to a survey or questionnaire. In order to encourage customers to actually complete the survey, rather than simply ignoring the email, Apple could offer customers a five or ten dollar iTunes gift card upon completion. It is not a lot of money, but it is enough that customers would be motivated to actually provide their feedback. If an iTunes gift card was offered, customers could use it in the App Store, to purchase any applications they find appealing or useful. For a new customer, who has not already purchased applications in the past, this could be a very helpful start. Older customers would also appreciate the reward, as it could give them an opportunity to purchase a few applications they may have had their eye on. Another option is for Apple to include a web address, to a survey or questionnaire, directly on the receipt following a purchase of an iPhone. I think that, in this case, it would also be helpful to offer a reward for responding to the survey. Otherwise, it is likely that the majority of customers would simply ignore the request.


	Purchasing an iPhone is a big commitment. An iPhone can be very costly, but also, mobile phones are generally an extremely important part of a consumer’s lifestyle. When it is time for consumers to purchase a new phone, they may sometimes question whether or not making the commitment to a particular brand is worthwhile. As a result, I think that it could be helpful for Apple to offer some additional promotions to repeat customers, in order to solidify the choice in consumers’ minds. 
One type of promotion that I think customers would appreciate is offering free Apple Care services with the repeat purchase of an iPhone. Apple Care is essentially an extended warranty, which helps to replace or repair a damaged, stolen, or lost iPhone. Generally, customers have to pay a hefty price, in addition to the price of the iPhone, for this service. Consumers want to know that the health of their iPhone is guaranteed, even after its regular one-year warranty expires. However, after making the already-expensive purchase of an iPhone, having to spend even more money on purchasing Apple Care is unappealing to consumers. Offering customers free Apple Care services would ensure that customers would feel more secure in making a repeat purchase, because they know that their expensive purchase will be protected without any additional expensive fees. 
	In addition, I think that it would be helpful for Apple to sometimes offer promotions that allow for more affordable purchases of iPhone accessories. Consumers tend to complain that they frequently need to purchase new iPhone chargers, because the wires tend to break. At approximately $15 per charger, the costs add up, and consumers are generally unimpressed. I think that it would benefit Apple to either offer buy one get one free promotions for the chargers, at least at certain times of the year, such as during the winter holiday season. Additionally, if Apple implemented a rewards program, perhaps customers could receive a free or discounted charger following a certain number of purchases from the Apple store. Implementing a rewards system would also encourage customers to actually purchase accessories directly from the Apple store, rather than looking for more affordable, third party replacements, which are often incompatible with the iPhone anyways. I think making these changes would solve some issues for the brand, because while the majority of Apple customers love their iPhones, they are also generally unimpressed by the cost and quality of necessary accessories.

