	Abraham Maslow’s Hierarchy of Needs is a motivational theory that explains how different types of human needs influence motivation, and ultimately, behavior. Interestingly, this theory can be applied throughout all aspects of an organization, including when discussing change management. This theory can also be applied towards considering how organizational leaders play a major role in influencing employees’ experiences, in the midst of an organizational change or crisis. In order to successfully follow through with a change within an organization, employees need to be adequately taken care of, in order to make the change as stress-free as possible. Employees may be concerned about job security or financial stability during mergers or acquisitions, or if they are being transferred to another department or position. These types of changes can be extremely anxiety provoking, and can make employees feel unsafe. As a result, organizational leaders need to consider how they can help meet employees’ needs, and reduce anxiety for all organizational members, during these difficult times. 
Maslow’s hierarchy includes: physiological needs, safety and security needs, belongingness needs, esteem needs, and self-actualization needs. If employees are concerned about job security and financial stability, this is going to impact some of their most basic needs, such as physiological, safety, and security needs. Not only could financial struggles potentially result in not being able to put food on the table, or not being able to pay one’s rent or mortgage, but anxiety can also result in lack of sleep and other unpleasant physiological symptoms. In situations where organizational changes are causing employees to experience such stressors, leaders need to ensure that they are taking steps to mitigate these issues. Although it may not be possible to eliminate every bit of discomfort employees may experience, leaders can focus on ensuring that employees are receiving adequate breaks in order to rest, eat, or sleep. Similarly, helping employees maintain an adequate work-life balance, by not overworking them during the change period, helps reduce feelings of stress and anxiety, which can keep employees healthier, happier, more motivated, and more productive. In addition, in cases were employees may have to be laid off, organizational leaders can work to provide resources and recommendations to help employees acquire new jobs quickly, in order to help them maintain a sense of financial stability and security. Lastly, in cases where employees are being given new jobs within the organization, or are being delegated unfamiliar tasks, leaders need to ensure that they are making themselves available to coach employees throughout the process of adjusting to their new roles within the organization. Providing this level of support is also likely to help some employees experience a sense of belongingness within the organization, as well as acquire increased self-esteem, as they successfully transcend this difficult period, and continue on to work towards self-actualization.  
	Over the past 20 years, it appears that the role of an organizational leader has changed drastically. While leaders often took on a more managerial role in the past, through delegating tasks and telling others what to do, the modern workforce expects more from their leaders. Rather than employees working in order to benefit the leader’s success, employees now want the leader to help them grow and succeed, in return for their hard work. Modern-day leaders tend to focus more on fostering an encouraging and inclusive environment, in which employees can learn, grow, and take part in innovative projects that were born through their own personal creative processes. Leaders are teachers that strive to help their employees become better versions of themselves, and in turn, this approach ultimately also benefits the greater good of the organization, through yielding more motivated, hardworking, and loyal employees.  
