This is not the only action Apple has taken to benefit female workers within their organization, as Apple is also supporting an increased percentage of female leaders in their United States locations. Apple, Inc. claims that while 29% of their leaders are female, 39% of Apple’s leaders who are under 30 are also female. These statistics show that Apple’s younger leaders are moving closer to experiencing a sense of gender equality in the workplace, and that the future of Apple, Inc. is likely to see more and more female leaders among its ranks as more and more women continue to enter the workforce. Once again, Apple’s efforts can help inspire communities to respect and trust in women’s leadership abilities, because if Apple can promote female leadership, it is undeniable that other organizations can also benefit from including female leaders throughout their workforce.  
Learning about Apple’s efforts can also help the organization retain consumer respect, as they are being truthful about their shortcomings, and they are also being transparent about the steps they are taking to make improvements throughout their organization. There is always the question of whether or not the organization is truly trying hard enough, and how much more they can do. However, without having an inside view of how the organization functions, the amounts and types of resources they possess, and where these resources need to be directed, it is difficult to say for certain. As Apple, Inc. is constantly expanding and changing, it is important for the organization to avoid making too many changes at once, and to ensure that there are adequate resources to train and integrate new employees, as well as to effectively manage and sustain new programs. If too many changes were implemented at once, that could result in chaos as older employees become overwhelmed, while newer employees lack training, and the entire organization lacks resources. The best way to create lasting positive changes within an organization is to gradually implement sustainable changes, rather than rushing to make several major changes at once. As a result, only time will tell the public how dedicated Apple, Inc. truly is towards promoting diversity, equality, and human rights throughout the entirety of their organization.

	For this section of the assignment, I have decided to research what Apple, Inc. is doing to benefit their female employees. From previous research, it is clear that Apple, Inc. is hiring more women, and that they are also interested in appointing women into the company’s leadership ranks. What efforts is Apple, Inc. implementing in order to bridge the gap between their female and male employees? How does Apple, Inc. address differences in biology, such as how childbearing and childcare may interfere with employment? 
	Firstly, Apple, Inc. prides itself in achieving equal pay for men and women throughout its organization, as well as equal pay for minorities in relation to majority groups. While White males still make up the largest portion of the corporation, Apple claims that they are successfully paying all of their employees equal salaries for equal work. According to Apple, Inc.’s website, they achieve pay equity by examining all of their employees’ salaries each year, and making adjustments in order to ensure that individuals are being paid solely based upon their roles and performance, rather than personal factors. Additionally, Apple, Inc. has stopped asking individuals about their pay history, so as not to allow an individual’s history to influence their current salary, which could cause discrepancies between what they deserve to be paid, and what they are actually being paid.
