I have decided to discuss Apple’s iPhone product throughout this course, because I feel that it is a very universal and popular product. When marketing the iPhone, Apple appeals to varying individuals, of different demographics and psychographics, in order to sell their product to as many different types of people as possible. The iPhone’s simple design is one of the easiest to use, which makes it inclusive of individuals of all ages and generations. Individuals enjoy the iPhone’s features for personal use, including gaming and photography, as well as for business use, including keeping up with emails, conference calls, and video calls. The iPhone is a versatile product, and despite other brands putting out products that have more advanced features than the iPhone does, the iPhone’s design and image, as well as Apple’s marketing abilities, causes the iPhone to remain a top runner in the smart phone market. 
It is important for companies to capture consumers’ emotions, in order to build a loyal customer base, that will be more willing to consistently purchase that company’s products. Apple has mastered the art of capturing consumer emotions, and individuals tend to want to pick up new iPhone models as soon as they are released. This has almost become a social tradition, allowing individuals to meet their social and belonging needs. 


It is common for manufacturers to want to appeal to younger customers, such as Social Sally. She has an intense desire to stay connected with her friends, and she feels that she “needs” a phone, because all of her friends have one too. These are the pre-teen and teenage years where adolescents are beginning to realize that they are interested in using technology to communicate with their friends, and most social medias are appealing ways to communicate with others, and to show off one’s talents. Social Sally is starting to build her social media profiles, and she wants new “likes” and “followers”. She is also texting her friends more often, and starting to have a more self-sustaining social life. 


Busy Barbara is a busy mother who is required to juggle her work and home life. She has young children, and she needs a reliable and versatile smart phone to keep track of appointments, events, and To Do lists. She also hopes to make some time for her own social life, so she often texts her friends or checks both her professional and personal emails while on the go. She is a superwoman who has to get a lot done at once, or else it will not get done at all. She has various activities planned for her children throughout the week, and she tries to stay involved at their schools, as she is also part of the PTA. Busy Barbara also likes to look put-together and does not want to appear tired or outdated, despite how many responsibilities she has on her plate.
