Granny Gloria is still a bit overwhelmed as a result of the more recent technological advances, but she tries her best to keep up. Her children are all grown up and she wants to know what they are up to. She also needs photographs of her grandchildren to show off to her friends. This is why she has created a Facebook profile for herself, with the help of one of her adult children, but she sometimes has to call her children to ask them questions about how to view her notifications, or how to post a photo of her own. She also appreciates a smart phone’s ability to take photos on the go, without the need for a traditional camera. This way, Granny Gloria always has her favorite photos on hand, and she can stay in the loop. 


Corporate Carl is a successful businessman who often has to travel for business purposes. He spends a lot of time on trains and planes, reading, catching up on emails or other work-related tasks, or just surfing the web. It is important for Corporate Carl to stay connected to his work at all times, even when he is in another country. He has to be able to contact his colleagues, and to respond to important business emails, regardless of his location. Corporate Carl is interested in the latest technological advances that will let him stay connected as easily as possible, and while he is on the go. He desires one portable, versatile device that is going to meet all of his needs. 
      


Josh the Jock is at some point in his college career, and his reputation means the world to him. He is popular and most likely plays college football, or any other sport. Josh the Jock got into college on a sports’ scholarship, and he was also very popular during his high school days. He belongs to a fraternity and enjoys attending frat parties and other social events. It is important to Josh the Jock to keep in touch with as many people as he can, in order to nurture his social life. He wants college to be the best time of his life, and he has dreams of becoming a famous athlete afterwards. Josh the Jock also tends to have several dates lined up at a time, and runs active social media profiles. No doubt, he needs a reliable smartphone to keep up with his lifestyle. Not only that, but it is important for Josh the Jock to keep up with the latest trends, so that other people can admire his style and how up-to-date he always is with the latest and greatest technological advances.


Traditional advertising methods included printed advertisements, such as in newspapers or magazines. Additionally, traditional advertisements could include: billboards, posters on the backs of benches, or ads on the sides of busses. These types of advertising methods are beneficial when marketers are targeting consumers who may not frequently utilize technology. This could include older individuals, who are not particularly tech savvy, or may not know how to use a computer or smart phone at all. They may even prefer to get their news through newspapers, rather than watching television. Additionally, while many younger individuals may not read newspapers or magazines, it is sometimes impossible to avoid viewing a public billboard or poster, particularly while walking down the street or if one is stuck in traffic. Traditional advertisements have the potential of reaching different types of consumers, but it seems that they are most affective in targeting those who are less reliant on technology. 
