	When developing an employee training program within an organization, it can be extremely helpful to have a well-rounded understanding of cognitive psychology. This is beneficial towards assisting employees in learning and processing information as effectively as possible. 
When attempting to encourage particular behaviors among employees, it is important for employees to be given the opportunity to understand precisely what is expected of them, and why. It is beneficial to the organization as a whole, if employees feel personally invested in the organization’s goals and mission. This would cause employees to then be more likely to feel more motivated to work harder, as they feel that they are striving for something that is bigger than their own self, rather than simply completing the individual tasks they are being told to do each day. Additionally, when attempting to run a successful employee training program, it is important for leaders to understand that different types of individuals learn through different methods and at different paces. 


	I believe that the key to running a successful learning organization is to foster an environment where leaders and subordinates can work together in a setting that encourages both personal and professional growth, and learning. Oftentimes, the greatest learning opportunities can occur when individuals make a mistake. It is one thing to simply be told something, and it is another thing entirely to personally have hands-on experience with solving a particular type of problem. In order to run a successful learning organization, leaders cannot expect employees to never a mistake throughout the training process. As a matter of fact, even experienced employees can sometimes lack knowledge in certain areas, which can lead to mistakes. However, making mistakes is a normal and healthy part of the learning process, and rather than punishing employees for making a mistake, leaders should seize the opportunity to teach employees the error of their ways, in order for them to continue to learn and grow as professionals. 

	When working with different types of individuals, it is important to keep in mind that different individuals can often perceive the same events in entirely different ways. Each individual’s unique perceptions are based on a variety of different factors, including their past experiences, their current emotional mindset, and even their culture or religious backgrounds. When communicating with another person, rather than expecting them to perceive information in a particular way, we have to be mindful of how their unique perceptions can influence the way they process the information we are attempting to communicate to them. This is important when attempting to run a successful employee training program, because if we wish to influence others’ knowledge and behaviors, we have to be able to meet them halfway, and effectively and accurately communicate our intentions.
	Similarly, different individuals possess different levels of attention and memory capabilities. While some individuals may be more visual learners, others may be more auditory learners. It is important for organizational leaders to cater to their employees’ unique learning styles, if they wish for employees to process information both effectively and efficiently. It is also important to consider that, if leaders wish for employees to be capable of effectively processing new information, it is important to limit distractions and avoid attempting to feed them too much information at a given moment. When there are too many external stimuli for our minds to process, it is likely that we will overlook important information, make an excessive amount of mistakes, or even forget information completely. When training employees, it is important to provide them with a quiet enough environment, so that they will be capable of focusing on the tasks at hand with minimal distractions. 
