	Upon analyzing Apple, Inc.’s policies surrounding diversity and inclusion, as well as the efforts that they have made in regards to diversifying their organization, I believe that Apple, Inc. has a variety of strengths as well as weaknesses relating to diversity within their company. I believe that Apple, Inc. has done a good job of advertising their beliefs surrounding diversity, including explaining why they believe that diversity leads to innovation. They demonstrate how inclusive their workplace environment is, as their website shares employees’ personal thoughts surrounding experiencing a sense of belonging within a diverse workplace environment. Additionally, in accordance with diversity data, Apple, Inc. is taking steps to increase diversity within their organization. It is clear that Apple’s collection of new employees is more diverse that their group of current employees. 
	Apple, Inc. displays weaknesses in certain areas, such as lacking diversity among executive officers within the organization’s leadership. The individuals who hold the highest roles in Apple’s organizational hierarchy are overwhelmingly white males, and there is no real sign of improvements in this department. However, this does not necessary indicate that Apple is not willing to diversify their upper leadership. It could simply indicate that they do not have any available jobs for additional upper-level officers, and no good reason to remove any of their current officers from their positions in order to replace them with individuals who belong to underrepresented groups. If there were a reason to replace certain executive officers within the organization, who is to say that Apple, Inc. would not then take the opportunity to diversity their leadership? Undoubtedly, that would be a beneficial route for them to take, and it would help them garner additional respect from both employees and customers. 
	Another one of Apple, Inc.’s weaknesses surrounds foreign employees in countries such as China, where human rights violations are prevalent in the workplace. The majority of consumers, even in the United States, are familiar with complaints regarding workplace conditions and safety concerns in Apple’s Chinese factories. For some consumers, this means boycotting Apple products, because they do not want to feel that they are indirectly supporting abuse by supporting Apple, Inc. However, Apple has taken some steps to try and decrease human rights issues in foreign factories, by running 756 audits in one year, as well as being transparent with the world regarding the violations they discovered. Apple has also launched a program in India and China, which is intended to help women, by raising health awareness for female employees in those regions. 

In my opinion, despite the aforementioned ongoing issues that have yet to be fully resolved, Apple’s efforts do help highlight the importance of fairness, justice, social problems, social change, and respect. Since Apple, Inc. is a large, well-known corporation, the way they handle social problems, and whether or not they are able to communicate positive thoughts regarding diversity, may actually influence society in a bigger way. For example, human rights issues within Apple’s Chinese factories actually brought many people’s attention to how horrifying the workplace conditions can be in some foreign settings, regardless of the organization that the foreign employees are working for. This is a common issue that organizations have to be aware of, especially in today’s economy where so many companies are outsourcing. Apple’s efforts in regards to being transparent about these issues can help more workers than just their own, as it brings people’s attention towards what is actually a larger issue. Additionally, Apple’s acknowledgement of the problem and the implemented program that addresses women’s health in Chinese and Indian workplaces also displays how Apple, Inc. feels about helping employees feel taken care of. 
