	Apple, Inc. is a popular company that manufactures a variety of products, most notably the iMac, MacBook, iPad, and iPhone. Steve Jobs and Steve Wozniak founded the organization, in April of 1976. The iPhone is a front-runner in the smartphone market, and Apple products have a reputation of being extremely reliable, although they can be fairly pricey. However, owning an iPhone has practically become a status symbol, and people pre-order new phones, and even line up for hours, as they want to upgrade to newer models as quickly as possible, rather than waiting until the initial hype of a new release dies down.
	Apple products are utilized globally, as they are well known and widely available on an international basis. Apple, Inc. is based in Cupertino, California, but the organization employs 130,000 people worldwide Some of the geographic regions in which Apple operates include: North and South America, Europe, the Middle East, and Asia. In fact, the company has seen a great deal of growth each year; in 2013, Apple, Inc. employed 84,400 employees. This indicates that Apple, Inc. has continued to expand over the years, hiring new employees and growing their business, with no signs of slowing down. 

	Ideally, running a global corporation involves employing a diverse set of workers, who are native to the various regions from which the company operates. 
Over recent years, Apple has actually been making active efforts to increase diversity within their organization, as data has shown that their newer hired employees are more diverse than their set of older employees.

 In addition to working towards encouraging racial diversity among employees, Apple also values female leaders, as 29% of Apple’s leaders are women. There is also evidence of Apple moving in the direction of embracing a greater number of female leaders in the future, as 39% of Apple’s leaders who are under 30 are also women. This means that there is a much greater number of female leaders that belong to younger generations, and that we could continue to see Apple move further into this direction in years to come.

	Apple, Inc.’s leaders and managers are faced with the task of diversifying the company’s workforce, which is still 54% White in the United States. While there are statistics to show that the overall organization is slowly becoming more diverse, as Apple, Inc. is hiring a greater number of workers that represent previously underrepresented minority groups, there is still generally a lack of diversity among those who hold a high level position within the organizational hierarchy. According to Apple’s most recent Federal Employer Information Report EEO-1, which is from 2016, Apple, Inc. employs a total of 107 executive/senior officials and managers. Of 107, an overwhelming 73 individuals are White males. Males of other races include: two individuals of Hispanic or Latino decent, two Black or African American individuals, and 10 Asian individuals. Female leaders include: 15 White women, one Black or African American woman, and four Asian women. There are no female Hispanic or Latino leaders, and there are no Native Hawaiian/Pacific Islander or Native American/Alaskan Native leaders at all. To say the least, all of these numbers leave much to be desired.
