This addresses how diverse individuals often have different perspectives, which can lead to them being capable of offering new and innovative ideas within a work team. As Apple, Inc. states, this is what makes innovation possible. One cannot expect change or progress if one continues to do the same things over and over. This is why people often say that two heads are better than one. Regardless of how much experience or knowledge someone has, there is always another perspective through which one can look at a particular problem. Employing diverse individuals can improve problem solving within the organization, and can also lead to new and lucrative ventures. I believe that Apple, Inc. encourages and helps to develop an inclusive culture by making these aforementioned beliefs known, thus helping diverse employees feel valued. 

	I believe that the leadership and management efforts at Apple, Inc. have resulted in progress towards creating a diverse workplace and culture. Organizations have to start somewhere and it can be dangerous to make too many changes at once. Leaders have to ensure that they are capable of training and sustaining a large amount of new employees coming into the organization, and of course, they cannot simply let older employees go for the sole purpose of diversifying the organization. For this reason, even small improvements in organizational diversity each year should be considered legitimate improvements. As small improvements are made each year, and as older generations retire from the workforce, the path to sustaining a truly diverse organization becomes much clearer. Additionally, in a massive organization such as Apple, Inc., improvements that appear small actually influence a lot of people. 
	I do feel that the diversity data that is currently available, including the statistical data I have shared throughout this assignment, provides evidence of organizational efforts to support diversity. Apple, Inc. definitely has a long way to go before the organizational statistics display clear and irrefutable evidence of true diversity and integration. Undoubtedly, an organization where White males make up the majority of the workforce leaves much to be desired in regards to diversity. However, Apple, Inc. is also clearly making improvements. Real progress tends to happen slowly, and as previously mentioned, Apple cannot simply fire thousands of people in order to hire a more diverse population in their place. This is especially true in regards to the company’s leaders. If someone is already in a leadership position within the organization and they are doing their job effectively, it would not make sense to replace them. It is more important to keep the business running efficiently in a given moment. However, when that individual naturally moves on from his leadership position, it absolutely does make sense for the organization to prioritize promoting someone who could bring more diversity to the leadership of the organization. Not only would this garner additional respect from the community, but it could also improve Apple, Inc.’s ability to nurture diverse populations within the organization, as well as market to diverse populations outside of the organization. This is not solely a result of a new leaders’ racial or ethnic background, but it is also due to the new perspectives that this individual could bring to the organization as an executive officer. 
