	However, among first/mid officials and managers, which are only slightly lower down in the organizational hierarchy, there is increased evidence of diversity among leaders. Of 8,205 individuals, 3,903 are White males. Additional male leaders in this category include: 411 Hispanic or Latino men, 172 Black or African American men, 1,389 Asian men, 12 Native Hawaiian or Pacific Islander men, 13 Native American or Alaskan Native men, and 55 men of two or more races. Female leaders at this hierarchical level include: 1,441 White women, 116 Black or African American women, 500 Asian women, 13 Native Hawaiian or Pacific Islander women, 10 Native American or Alaska Native women, and 34 women of two or more races. While these numbers still leave something to be desired, they show evidence of greater diversity than those that are seen among Apple’s highest-level executives and mangers. 

Any lack of diversity that is seen throughout the aforementioned statistics does not mean that Apple, Inc. is not making an effort to improve diversity among leaders. In particular, there is evidence to suggest that Apple, Inc. is especially making the effort to increase their numbers of female leaders. Apple, Inc. claims that while 29% of their leaders are female, 39% of Apple’s leaders who are under 30 are also female. These statistics show that Apple’s younger leaders are moving closer to experiencing a sense of gender equality in the workplace, and that the future of Apple, Inc. is likely to see more and more female leaders among its ranks as more and more women continue to enter the workforce. Similarly, it is just as important for Apple, Inc. to promote diversity among racial minorities, and there is also some evidence to suggest that Apple, Inc. is making an effort to do so. According to statistical data, Apple’s new hires are made up of a more diverse group of individuals than their current workforce.
These numbers reflect Apple’s workers in the United States, and diversity efforts may differ elsewhere.

	Based on the information that is shared on Apple, Inc.’s website, regarding inclusion and diversity, I do feel that Apple’s leaders are aware of the importance of having a diverse workforce, particularly within such a large organization. 


Additionally, the website includes sections in which various employees, of various ethnic and racial backgrounds, have shared their stories of success working for Apple, Inc. This suggests that Apple, Inc. does desire to create an inclusive environment, in which workers of various backgrounds can be comfortable and can experience a sense of belonging. 
Apple, Inc. appears to be concerned with their employees’ satisfaction levels, and they do take responsibility for any human rights controversies that have occurred surrounding Apple, Inc.’s foreign workers, particularly in China. In these cases, Apple, Inc. has openly shared information regarding the audits they have performed, and the amount of human rights violations they discovered as a result. One could argue that Apple, Inc. is only making these additional efforts regarding foreign workers, because ill-treated workers in other countries makes for negative publicity. However, regardless of the reasons for Apple’s approach, their transparency is admirable. 
