	There are a variety of different leadership theories, which can be applied within organizations throughout a plethora of different situations. Many of these theories ultimately demonstrate the importance of work-life balance, through highlighting ways to best care for employees’ wellbeing, in addition to the wellbeing of the organization as a whole. One example of such a leadership theory is the Hersey-Blanchard Situational Leadership Theory, which is essentially a type of Contingency Theory. This theory takes into account that different situations may require a leader to behave differently, and take on a different approach. This is relevant, because employees may need different types of guidance at different points in their professional lives. This is especially true when employees are in the midst of coping with an organizational change, and are attempting to maintain adequate work-life balance in the process. 
According to Hersey and Blanchard, leaders can take on four different approaches, including: telling, selling, participating, and delegating. Each of these approaches provides subordinates with a different level of control, and a different level of correspondence with their leader. For example, a telling leader is actively offering guidance and supervision, while a delegating leader is letting others do assigned tasks, without much guidance at all. This is important, because when employees are adjusting to an organizational change, they may temporarily require a more hands-on leadership approach. However, consistently telling subordinates exactly how to do something, without allowing them to ever think for themselves, may not be the best long-term approach. This is because a leader also wishes for their subordinates to gain the confidence and knowledge to eventually be able to accomplish certain tasks on their own, and to ultimately grow as individuals and professionals. 
Another leadership theory, which can also be applied to the topic of work-life balance, is the Path-Goal Theory. The Path-Goal theory is similar to the Situational Leadership approach, in the sense that it also requires flexibility on behalf of the leader, depending on the specific scenario. This can help establish and maintain work-life balance, as it addresses the individual needs of each employee. The Path-Goal Theory suggests that it is helpful for leaders to create a clear path for subordinates to follow. Undoubtedly, the path would need to be tailored to fit each individual employee, depending on his or her skills, needs, knowledge, and abilities. The leader is there to support the employee throughout the process of attaining their goals, and to ensure that the employee has all of the necessary resources and information that they require. Taking on this type of supportive approach is one way to help employees feel positive about an organizational change, that they may not initially understand or know how to cope with. Organizational changes can result in a great deal of anxiety among employees. Therefore, it is helpful for leaders to acknowledge these potential stressors and to encourage all organizational members to work together as a team, in order to rise above the challenge. Additionally, it is important for organizational leaders in such a situation to communicate that coaching and guidance is always available to those who may require it.
