Despite that patriotic attempt at corpus planning, no one took the dictionary seriously. When the Communist government lost power in 2008, a pro-Western coalition government took over. They were cautious not to directly offend their Russian populations, but the “first signs of the changes are evident by the removal of the letters ‘MD’ on government websites. MD designated the Moldovan language. These have been replaced by ‘RO’, which indicates the Romanian language.” The coalition, aptly named “Alliance for European Integration,” is trying to break with the Soviet-Moldovan myth.

Political ally Marian Lupu is more stand-offish on the topic.  When the question came up on whether the Moldovan government should change the language’s name in the constitution, he said a public referendum would be best. Former president Voronin also emphasized the public’s role in deciding what to name the state’s official language and he often cited the 2004 referendum when defending his positions.  

In a state with such a mixed population as Moldova, the only way the major ethnicity can proceed with its identity positioning is through extreme tolerance of its nearly 30% Slavic speaking, power holding, population.  Russia remains the language of inter-ethnic communication while Moldovan is the language of the largest ethnicity.  The state has a shared history with its region Transnistria from 1940 to present. Clearly the Moldovan government doesn’t want to let the area east of the Dniester River go on account of its significant economic output. The region never was a part of Bessarabia and they do not share a common linguistic identity except for the Russian of inter-ethnic communication. 
When the Russian Empire came to Bessarabia after 1812, they began a policy of enforced Russian at the expense of the local language.  To separate from Russia, the region adopted the Romanian Latin alphabet in its current form for the first time in its history. As it united with Romania, it played up the shared language.  When the Soviet Union took over in 1940, the languages’ differences from Romanian were exploited to divide a common people.  Since initial Russian occupation to present date, each region whether Romania, Moldova, or Russia bolstered the status of Moldova’s language in order to act out their own agenda.  Linguistically, Moldova has multiple nations within its constructed state borders.  Despite Moldova’s pride in being so ethnically tolerant, its national anthem demonstrates the country’s dilemma. Whether “Our Language” refers to Moldovan or Romanian is immaterial when taking into account the key language it excludes: Russian.   
