His essay compares President Trump's policy book "Great Again: How to Fix Our Crippled America" with general practices of Fascism and specific plans and attitudes of Nazism as laid out in Hitler's "Mein Kampf".  Both works are essentially policy plans and were written when the respective authors were close to becoming their country's supreme leader but not quite. In Trump's case, his book was published in late 2016, in Hitler's case, it was published in the early 1920's. I want to say at the outset that I don't believe the current Republican government is Fascist or behaving in a way other than traditional conservative right wing governments in the past.  However, based on the rhetoric of President Trump, there are certain similarities between what he says and techniques Fascism and National Socialism employed. 

Audio book text sources: "Great Again: How to Fix Our Crippled America" narrated by Jeremy Lowell, "A Short Introduction of Fascism", and Hitler's "Mein Kampf" Trump reads or rather shouts the introduction himself. Fortunately, it's only 11 minutes out of four and a half hours. With audio books, the listenability of the reader is paramount. The narrator Lowell of course says all the things Trump says, but in an even paced, relaxed, but still confident tone.  For Mein Kampf, the reader is pleasant and has an eerie lightheartedness that's almost jovial.  This is a striking contrast to what is being said, but if you're going to listen to the same voice and topic for twenty seven hours, you want it to engage you, not offend you.  Before I got the Mein Kampf audiobook, I used the Kindle "Text to Speech" and had the robotic female voice read it because it amused me.  It also took away from Hitler's most abrasive rhetoric.

For Trump, he begins "This is the introduction you gotta believe." His opening line is a sales pitch in which everyone doubts him for he is the bearer of truth. He alone survives the onslaught of "naysayers", politicians, and media that doubt his ability to govern or tell facts straight.  He prides himself as being a businessman in contrast to a politician.  For him, politicians are inept, cater to special interest groups, and ineffectual. For him, congresses and parliaments digress to petty squabbling and accomplish nothing.    Note, when teenager Adolf the orphaned draftsman was visiting the parliament of the Austro-Hungarian Empire in Vienna in 1900, he had the same impression.  Only for him, the squabbling was in a cacophony of Slavic, Hungarian, and non-Germanic languages.  He saw this multinational empire as a disgrace to all the things his Germanic people could achieve.  At this time, the draftsman vigorously read the newspapers until he realized everything had been co-opted by Jewish Socialists.  At one point he compare the ubiquitous nature of the Jewish Marxists to maggots, "Was there any shady undertaking, any form of foulness, especially in cultured life, in which at least one Jew did not participate? If you carefully punctured this abscess with a knife, like a maggot in a rotten body who was blinded by the sudden influx of light, you would discover a Kike." (About a year before writing this essay, I had attempted again to listen to the 27 hour audio book of Mein Kampf, this time read in the male voice. I'd stopped listening after his 'abscess' analogy because there's only so much hate filled ranting this academic can stomach. Two events inspired me to resume my listen. Russia's 2014-2015 slander of a pro-West Ukraine as 'Neo-Nazi Fascist' and Trump's national populism and mass fear mongering). This particular slight of the orphaned draftsman serves three purposes.  Discredit the Jews, discredit the socialists, (at the time known as Social Democrats), and discredit the media.  One of the many reasons he adamantly disliked the Jews, Slavs, and non-genetically related countrymen is because they were cosmopolitan, worldly, and were ripe targets as the foreigner.  One of Nazism's in particular and Fascism's in general scapegoats are foreigners, the quintessential 'other'. Any foreigners will do, but Jewish people are popular because they were believed historically to be a landless people and therefore inherently foreign wherever they went and inconceivable to ethnic groups that congealed from the soil they currently tilled, administered, or conducted business on. The ideologies in question define themselves in terms of race and ethnicity  and land, therefore the landless person is antithetical and incomprehensible to their landed identity.  
