	Another major shift comes in the latter half of the 20th century, the progressive moment laid the groundwork for the movement in the 1960's called The New Left. Partially a product of the “Old Left” and Marxist ideology partially a product of modern conflicts such as Vietnam and the civil rights movement. The developments to historiography that arose were new ways of looking into foreign policy and marginalized groups that had historically been dominated by the white, male, middle class, American exceptionalism that had pervaded so many of the  works that had been done before, with a large focus on Marxist ideals and economic influences on history. New works on the marginalized came from a variety of sources with one of the most important being Howard Zinn. Zinn's work on marginalized peoples and his “bottom up” approach show a  focus on attempting to understand social inequality so he could attempt to eliminate it. Another major impact of the New Left was it's work on American Revolutionary historiography, allowing us for the first time to look at the masses of people living in the colonies allowing an unprecedented look at a “hidden history”.
	At the same time things shifted in other directions, as another group of historians forms ideas that would be called New Social History. These new historians were often women and  minorities often not admitted to institutions in the past, and while influenced by the New Left they had a decidedly less Marxist view on things and a more social history that had been touched on by the New Left. The new focus on large numbers and empirical date from the social sciences helped dictate some of the ways that the New Social Historians studied things, borrowing heavily from sociology, psychology, geography and many others. These new methods combined with the focus on minorities helped establish a strong series of “race histories that challenged the white bias that had been still implicit before these times. John Blassingame, building upon the previous works helped expose how old works would be inherently racist and observed that despite all the oppression and violence, slaves used whatever means possible to maintain dignity, family life, culture and community. These analysis of black culture in the slave era took a heavy bottom up approach and oral histories from people and their descendants who lived through these things. Women's history also got a large boost of people in the field, working many times hand in hand with feminism to understand women's issues through history and use that knowledge to help eliminate sexism. Many of these ideas also combined with new fields such as psychohistory, cliometrics, and historical sociology to create new developments in cross field content and empiricism.
