	Along side all of these new advancements in social science came an arguably larger amount of empirical data and histories to be formulated but ideas of relativism and postmodernism would flow into the U.S. from Europe and influence new ideas once again. The global Literary Turn coming in from french thinkers slightly pushed history into a  more fictive with a new need to pursue literary tropes as history attempts to make a believable narrative, even though history is working with facts rather than fiction. Also during this time The Cultural Turn came about, as cultural historians moved away from focusing on high culture and intellectual leaders and instead trying to understand the “inter worked system of constructable signs” that make up culture that consist of “The whole body of practices, beliefs, institutions, customs, habits, myths, and so on built up  by humans and passed on  from generation to generation”. These historians now looked to understand the whole of the past culturally and how it shaped individuals and created knowledge. Many of these are impeccably small in scale but allow people to examine  moments in time to understand broader history of a people as a whole. Many of the ideas that inspired these previous “turns” helped develop other new areas where people would analyze how discourse constructs identity, and at the forefront of that is gender and identity histories. Looking at gender, masculinity, and femininity as constructed, it allowed historians to try to understand how these constructions shaped men and women's lives historically, including how things like morality, virtue, and privacy and their differing gendered meanings shaped and were shaped by the American Revolution.

	On the whole American Historiography moves away from consensus and towards conflict, away from exclusion and towards inclusion, and expands the breadth of topics and methods as time progresses from nearly purely political and military to including social, cultural, and economic as well. These movements built upon the backs of each other even when they were running against each other, and on the whole have made writing about history arguably easier and more available.
