	The cyclical decline and growth is part of the growth of another major demographic in urban life, the poor. Between immigrants and those who hard times had fallen on, early on the systems that administered help were less organized, be they guilds helping there own in times of need or traditional religious alms and charity. As time progressed more, local and even national government took more and more of an influence on poor laws and legislation, some such as Marshall’s Draft of a Poor Law, tout the virtue of the enacting ruler as an almost savior like figure, blessed with the magnanimity and wisdom to do such a thing, while as time passed more and more poor laws became restrictive, be they based on long term local citizenship, banishment, or just notoriously underfunded. While the poor in urban areas became an expanding problem in the 16th century, this heightened class divergence seemed so at odds with the ideals of cities in the 15th century. Bruni’s Funeral Oration extols the idea that “the state aims at achieving liberty and equality for each and every citizen”(Bruni), this early ideal of a free and equal people was progressively undermined by the core tenants of what a city was, a large conglomeration of people working outside the highly agricultural realms of rural society, be it in manufacturing or trade. The growth of these cities only strengthened class stratification, but it also deeply grew existing patriarchal structures that would exclude women, while at the same time desperately needing the women to ensure a functioning economy in urban society.
	As a whole the changes brought about from 14th century Europe to 16th century Europe are so intertwined in ideas of government, economics, demographics, among many other factors, that it would be impossible to say that ideals, beliefs, and mores had not changed even subtly if not drastically. In an urban environment the sense of community becomes more fractured as people line up along narrower bands such as guild, neighborhood, or even the eventual division of religion. The ideal of profit becomes solidly entrenched, as an early market economy takes hold, dividing the haves and have-nots to an even greater degree. With this drive for profit the ability of the individual rises, as wealthy people can consolidate and grow that wealth, eventually using it to accrue local and possibly regional political power, thus placing more stock in the individual over the community. These changes in values are part of the core building blocks for early modern societies going forward, individualism, profit, and building a narrow in-group. These together form a core for the development of Nation States, the Enlightenment, Economic Liberalism, and other ensuing European movements.
	As a whole these changes that stemmed from economic and social organizations and movements are indicative of a society at odds with it self, growing into something that they would not understand at the moment. The old ideals lacking compatibility with the needs of a modern society are slowly forgotten and discarded.
