	Ever since the  foundations of the American Revolution historians have been writing about what's been happening, and the way that the practice of historical writing has developed over the course of the life of the nation has been just as varied and interesting as the development of the United States itself. The largest and most impactful movements of historiography in the U.S. start in the late 19th century and more grow, fall, and trickle through time all the way up in to the modern era. These grow and expand on existing ideas and are unique to the American experience in some degree, even though outside influence comes through. Here I'll cover the major trends and changes in American historiography across those periods, and show how they built upon each other to reach the point that they are today.
	The historiography of the early  U.S. us at it's core very simplistic compared to many instances of what's to come. The founding fathers believed that histories that have Americans good role models, would help unite them behind the fledgling government. This need for popular history led to the rise of a well known historian in George Bancroft and his life's work, History of the United States from the Discovery of the American Continent was influential to the American public and their perception of themselves and would trickle down to the rest of the U.S.'s historiographies, as the American Revolution and the “drum and bugle” nationalist histories that he, along with many other early popular historians, produced formed the groundwork for later works of history. As time passed in the 19th century the need for less amateur and more professional history came from Germany into the U.S. and with it a wave of historical societies. These ideas of an educated and somewhat standardized system of history forged new ideas, but were grounded in a biased worldview of white, middle class, males due to university admissions and the way that society was biased at the time.  Frederick Jackson Turner contributed the “Frontier Thesis” to the conversation of American history, this thesis espoused that the American sense of democracy was shaped not by European ancestry, but by it's unique struggle to conquer the Western frontier These basic building blocks of American exceptionalism and the biases of the early professional system helped develop historiagraphical concepts moving into the 20th century.
	In the formative years of the 20th century the ideals of early progressivism began to take hold. Fighting back against corruption across all sectors of life and attempting to benefit the people living under the American democracy most. These ideals, influenced by Marxism trickled into historiography challenging the ideas developed in the past, arguing that conflict rather than consensus helped push progress. Due to these ideals many different perspectives that would have been left out started to be published, such as W.E.B. Du Bois's The Souls of Black Folk, James Harvey Robinson's  The New History, and Charles and Mary Ritter Beards' collective works. Some major ideas from these contributors are how racism shaped Reconstruction in a negative way, and broader concepts of relative truth in history and that impartiality was near impossible when tackling the past. Combining this with a new way of combining social, political, and economic history focusing on new economic ideas that pitted industrialism versus agrarianism, people versus capitalist society, and a de-emphasis on American exceptionalism. Even though these new progressive histories were popular in the early 20th century, the fallout from the second world war caused minds in the nation to flip as far away as possible from these newer  progressive ideals into an older consensus style, forming the neoconsensus movement. Historians such as Richard Hofstadler found that what made America unique was that it lacked dissent and that the people universally believed that democracy and government should be a certain way. This return to ideals of American homogeneity and compromise made led to a returned focus on the American Revolution as a moment of unity that should reflect all of American history. 
