Drew Goddard’s 2012 horror comedy The Cabin in the Woods is the story of a shadowy organization that is trying to keep humanity alive, by enacting traditional horror movie plots to placate some elder being. The core of this particular story is five college kids being manipulated and thrust into a traditional “slasher” film, while the white collar people running the show watch from their underground facility and control some aspects. The pivotal scene is where it is revealed that Marty(Fran Kranz) is in fact alive, saves Dana(Kristen Connolly) from certain death, and reveals to her that there is some kind of malicious force manipulating everything they do, by breaking into the facility and seeing the real horror of their situation. The lighting, setting, and acting all help portray the revelation that the characters experience and in turn the films shift from traditional slasher film to psychological horror as the main characters unravel their reality.
	The scene opens as the shot transitions back from the people in the facility watching the events unfold to the actual events themselves. Dana is about to be murdered by Matthew Buckner when Marty suddenly arrives on scene and saves her with his comically over-sized,  metal bong before she knocks Matthew into the lake. As Dana and Marty are being chased he leads her to one of the “zombies” graves and reveals a hatch leading to some kind of bunker. In the bunker Marty reveals how he survived and that it leads to an elevator that he thinks he can figure out how to work. Dana reluctantly agrees to get in the elevator and go down to wherever it leads with Marty, and as the elevator moves downwards and sideways Marty and Dana are shown a werewolf, a specter, a monstrous “tooth fairy”, and some kind of demon lord. With this Dana realizes that the situation was entirely manipulated by some outside force and that their fate was predetermined, as it pans out to show a variety of monsters and killers, all who could have been their doom.
