I am not passionate about social media and I do not use it in my personal life, but I have accepted the challenge to explore it and to learn how to use it effectively for business purposes.  The impact of social media is tremendous in our society.  It has allowed individuals to globally interact and network with each other with much greater ease and expediency than former methods of contact such as physical meetings and mailed publications.   While social media platforms such as Facebook, Twitter, and LinkedIn have expanded the opportunities for direct interaction between professionals, they must be used judiciously and prudently to avoid putting out an unprofessional or inappropriate image.  Some individuals have struggled with establishing boundaries with social media so that it does not backfire and tarnish their professional image or reputation rather than enhance it.  
As a marketing and promotional tool, social media and blogging have provided unbelievable opportunities for direct contact with potential and current customers, clients, and contacts.  It is often critical for business leaders and professionals to learn how to use these tools effectively to market their businesses, services, and products.  Social media and blogging can also be used to enhance the business’s reputation and to increase the public’s awareness of the business.  
What truly concerns me about social media is that it is a potential threat to the direct human interaction that I believe is and always will be a critical component of business.  While the old fashioned eye contact and handshake are certainly not obsolete, are we careening towards an era where perhaps they could become so?  Are we, as a society, replacing direct human contact with virtual and electronic connections?   


My undergraduate record both is and is not an accurate reflection of my potential in the MAC Program.  While I did receive academic honors and recognition based on my academic performance in my undergraduate program, I was limited in my ability to fully excel and engage in my program at the level at which I am capable of performing.  I also was not able to attend the caliber of academic institutions and programs that I feel would have been more compatible with my abilities and that I would have felt more proud of myself for attending.  
I began my undergraduate studies two weeks after giving birth to my daughter, and as a young infant and child she was entirely dependent on me and my care for her.  I chose to stay in close physical proximity to my family, because I wanted her to have the benefits of being around her grandparents and other extended family members.  I also wanted to be physically present for my daughter during her very early childhood, because I felt strongly that babysitters and other childcare providers were not able to provide her with the same quality of care and connection as I could, as her mother.  Thus, I selected my schools based upon location and convenience rather than assessing what programs would be most compatible with me and my goals.  As a result, it was not possible to participate in campus activities because I chose to be at home with my young child instead.  Otherwise, I would have enjoyed these experiences and probably would’ve had something memorable to share as a response to this question.  
Alice is about to turn seven, and she is becoming engaged in the outer world - her own school life and school peers.  The timing is perfect for me to fully launch myself into my own education and career.  I am excited and ready to embark upon the pursuit of my goals!
