I have always been more of a cooperative person than a competitive person.  Competition can be a positive thing, and I am constantly competing with myself as I strive to improve upon mistakes I have made.  No member of a team should suffer injury so that another team member can get ahead.  Every member of a team is valuable, and each individual has strengths and weaknesses.  I enjoy assuming a leadership position in a group, but I am also comfortable stepping aside and allowing someone else to assume this position when it would benefit the group as a whole.  I do not feel a need to be in control or to take credit for work being done.  It is the whole that matters, as this cohesion is what facilitates the best outcomes.  Oftentimes, a seemingly unimportant idea can lead a group in a novel direction.  I am sensitive to others’ needs and feelings, but I also have the assertiveness to disagree and voice my opinion when I feel that things are heading in the wrong direction; I’m very aware of the dangers of groupthink.  Additionally, I’m skilled at seeing the big picture and anticipating future roadblocks so that proper plans can be made to prevent or ameliorate these situations.  

  	
The situation which challenged me the most occurred during an internship with North Carolina Department of Correction.  Facilitating a weekly group of female inmates who had been selected to participate based upon their personal histories was not the challenge.  I enjoyed meeting with my clients and leading group discussions on topics pertaining to their incarceration, their upcoming parole, and their emotional needs.  The challenging component was the behavior of my supervisor, with whom I worked in direct contact both in the groups and in the office.  
	The problems began when he and I began screening the prison population to select inmates for participation in the upcoming group.  During the screening process, we assessed each inmate’s records to determine who would be appropriate for inclusion.  The criteria for selection were factors such as good behavior, impending parole, and previous criminal history.  Upon viewing the computer images of the inmates, my supervisor would immediately reject an inmate based upon factors such as race or physical attractiveness (as perceived by him).  He discriminated against females who had a history of certain crimes he personally disapproved of.  Additionally, he made derogatory comments about inmates’ appearances and ridiculed them in the office.  
	This man had offered me a full-time paid position upon completion of my internship, and he was in an extremely high ranking position in the prison system.  It was an uncomfortable and challenging situation, as I did not know what steps I should take and I felt very disempowered in my role as a mere intern.  What did I ultimately decide to do?  
  	
I have been the manager of a small retail business for three and a half years.  When I initially began working at the business, the entire store and its records were in disarray, because the former manager lacked the organizational skills required to manage the store effectively.  As manager, I have worked diligently to organize not only the customer and financial records and paperwork, but also to establish systems of organization for the merchandise and the overall retail space.  The business has remained steady throughout the recent economic downturn, and I believe that this is partially due to the organization and leadership I have provided through difficult economic times.  
