Insomnia and nightmares are common, as well as intrusive memories, which occur in the form of powerful memories of something or someone that hasn’t been thought of in years.  Although frightening for the user, these signs may indicate that normal memory functions are returning.  Panic attacks are common, and often appear when the drug is ceased for patients who never previously had them.  These are attributed to the hyperactivity of the brain void of GABA, and the users adjusted inability to cope with stress and trauma, which is known as a ‘rebound’ effect of the drug.  Sensory hypersensitivity during withdrawal can be frightening and disturbing.  A ticking clock can become unbearably loud, the skin may become so sensitive that it feels like insects are crawling all over the body, tinnitis (hissing or ringing in ears) may occur, and strange and strong smells and tastes may be observed in the body, for example.  
This is highly frightening for the individual who feels like he is detached from his physical body and is viewing the world and himself from the outside.  This is actually the body’s natural defensive reaction to an unbearably traumatic and painful situation (the withdrawal symptoms), and can be thought of much like the deer that freezes up as headlights rapidly approach.  Hallucinations, usually visual, and perceptual distortions cause many users to think they are going insane.  Objects seen out of the corner of the eye are often misperceived as other objects and small creatures or large insects crawling around are frequently seen.  This can be thought of much like delirium tremens that occur with alcohol withdrawal.  
Muscle spasms, tensions, and twitches are common and annoying and should gradually improve.  Bodily sensations become hyperexcitable as the sensory receptors in the body fire chaotically; hot and cold sensations, itching, the feeling of electric shocks, numbness, pins and needles, and general tingling are common.  These too should disappear after withdrawal.  The overactive nervous system often responds with heart palpitations, sweating, and very panic-like symptoms.  The digestive system, immune system, and endocrine system are all hindered as well.  
The best and usually only effective way to withdraw from benzodiazepines is with very slow and gradual tapering of the drug and careful physical and psychological monitoring by the physician and counselor.  

A definite linkage has been shown to permanent damages of the central nervous system, which may include shrinkage of the cerebral cortex, failure of GABA receptors to return to their pre-benzodiazepine use state, and brain atrophy (two reports have been made).  The cognitive dysfunction can cause a lifelong debilitation, and unfortunately not enough is known about this potential danger to fully understand it.  More and more studies are being done as the public becomes aware of this growing health concern to learn more about the permanent behavior abnormalities and cognitive impairment that can result from benzodiazepine use.  
With prescribed and illicit benzodiazepine use growing rapidly (particularly among illicit users who can obtain the drugs on the Streets or through prescriptions from multiple doctors), it is critical for everyone in society to be aware of the dangers of these drugs.  

It is clear that benzodiazepine use, abuse, and addiction is a severe and undeniable public concern, and it is important for all involved in public health to educate themselves about these drugs, their effects, and how to treat the variety of physical and psychological damage caused by addiction.  The counselor should be familiar with the very special treatment plans, including tapering of the drug and counseling, that are necessary for clients suffering from the effects of benzodiazepines.  Hopefully with a growing number of addicts seeking help and the growing number of lawsuits and reports of extreme adverse reactions to these drugs, they will come to the attention of more professionals in the public health field, which is the key to saving not only society but also the individual from the agonies of these drugs.  
