 Even more concerning is the lack of public awareness about this frightening problem and the amount of unknowing users who develop addiction to their prescription drugs.   Benzodiazepines are powerfully addictive and damaging, and it is important for counselors to be thoroughly informed and aware of the dangers of these drugs.  As the prevalence of prescribed use has been gradually declining, illicit use has been on the rise rapidly in the past two decades, and cross-addictions to drugs and alcohol occurring in 73% of benzodiazepine users and an estimated 50% of alcoholics in detoxification using non-prescribed benzodiazepines, the counselor is going to come face to face with addicted users and needs to know how to specifically address the unique terrors and the serious public health concerns of benzodiazepine addiction.  
	First it is important to understand exactly what benzodiazepines are and to be familiar with those that are most commonly abused. 
They are usually taken orally as pills, but are also used intravenously, or crushed and snorted.  

As a result, functioning is drastically impaired.  Since the benzodiazepines are fat-soluble, there are very few parts of the body and brain that are not affected by their use.  
	The damage to the body and brain caused by benzodiazepines is extensive, and the potential for addiction and adverse reactions raises the question of why anyone would knowingly take these drugs.  The withdrawal symptoms are even more horrifying, and almost always create a nightmare for the user that is far worse than the original symptoms they sought to treat with the use of the drugs in the first place.  

 Thus, tolerance is rapidly developed, and the brain is left in a traumatized condition with the adverse effects beginning almost immediately, and dependence developing often in as little as two weeks.  About 60% of users are estimated to become addicted and suffer adverse reactions.   
	The list of common adverse effects is extensive.  Severe, long-term cognitive and behavioral impairment and even psychosis is not uncommon. 
Drug interactions are common and dangerous and can lead to fatality in worst case scenarios.  The benzodiazepines compound the effects of other sedative drugs, including opiates and more importantly alcohol.  This is frightening considering the high rate of benzodiazepine use in alcoholics.  
Thus, grieving processes can be inhibited and may remain unresolved indefinitely and the brain does not develop natural stress-coping strategies.  
Sometimes, particularly in conjunction with alcohol use, benzodiazepines cause paradoxical excitement, the opposite of their intended effects, which man include heightened anxiety, insomnia, nightmares, hallucinations, irritability, and aggressive behavior, including even homicide, at worse.
Tolerance develops rapidly as the brain adjusts to the presence of benzodiazepines and leads to the hideous withdrawal syndrome which most users experience.  Frighteningly, these symptoms can last for months or even years, and there is evidence of potential permanent brain damage and cognitive impairment that may occur with long-term heavy use.  The most immediate danger, however, is the high addiction potential; psychological and physical dependence develops for those on therapeutic dosages as well as for those recreationally abusing the drugs, which presents a special problem as these users typically use dosages much higher than therapeutic dosages, causing the withdrawal reactions to be much more severe.  
