  A Liberal Arts education allows us to learn about many things so that we are able to see the advantage of a multi-faceted and complexly layered education. We learn to appreciate the people and ideas around us. We are not laser focused on one topic, and only that topic. We are able to develop skills that we can use to extract skills from all the various subjects we encounter. Liberal Arts Students are able to identify similarities in various subjects and classes while tying these back to the original topic of interest. We are taught to think critically about many different subjects, not just the one we chose as a major. In that way, even though we obtain a degree in one topic, we have a degree that means that we have experienced many different subjects and thought critically about the world around us in relation to those topics. It would be an advantage to dealing with complex problems if you had a more well-rounded education because you would perhaps be more involved with differing cultures or theories that would help you to look at the complex problem, like homelessness, from differing directions. This would allow you to interact with the problem and the patrons that were homeless in a different way. In a general education setting, the student might only be focused on learning one set of skills and to use those skills to obtain employment after their instruction period is over. Perhaps if we integrated in possessing those specialized skills along with a more well-rounded look at interacting within the community, education would be able to address both the problem of not having enough skilled labor but also, having students who look beyond their major and see how they can help their community. 
	Liberal Arts programs push students from their comfort zone by having them engage with material they otherwise might not have pursued. In this way, students are exposed to not only various subjects but they are challenged to create a place for these various topics within their resume as a student. It is important to branch out from the safety of the things that you feel you have the most passion for and explore things that might make you question and look at your journey. Finding our path can be difficult but receiving an education at a liberal arts college can expose you to many different ideas and subjects that might lead to a spark of an idea of what you would like to do for a living. This is a good way to address the complex issues within your community. 
