There are many complex problems that we encounter as members of a community on a daily basis and it is very important that we work to address them. Complex problems differ depending on your employment or what community you live in. Working in a public setting in a public library system has a unique set of complex problems that one would have to navigate daily. One of those complex problems would be helping those within the community that find themselves homeless. Often, the public library is an option for many in the homeless community of a safe space to spend the day and also a connection to community resources. The Library sometimes serves as the place where homeless patrons can go to obtain resources like computer access or to use the facilities to clean themselves. It is a place where they can frequent and not have to feel othered by the fact they are there. Publiclibrariesonline.org states that, “According to the U.S. Department of  Housing and Urban Development’s 2016 Annual Homeless Assessment Report on a single night in January 2016, 549,928 people were experiencing homelessness in the United States”. This can lead to complex problems within the library system. “This population includes men, women, children, and families. They face a wide range of challenges including lack of affordable housing, employment opportunities, healthcare, and other needed services. As many public librarians know, with no safety net to speak of, homeless citizens often turn to the library for help”. What is the best way to combat these large, complex problems? Is there an advantage to having one sort of education over another?
Recently, there has been a shift in the public to move away from a liberal arts education to a more career minded, jobs oriented type training. There have even been universities that have moved to a model of “rewarding public colleges and universities for churning out students educated in fields seen as important to the economy”. There is a sense of having employees made in higher education rather than minds being challenged and made. I believe that having a Liberal Arts education can give you a background and education that provides a different way to look at complex problems. You are able to look outside the box and come at problems from a more well-rounded way.
There are a variety of different ways that you can both explore your passions and further your education post-high school. One of those options is an education at a Liberal Arts College. You are exposed to various ideas and principles and are encouraged to explore outside your declared major and to experience different types of classes. For example, Miami University encourages students to “students to gain a breadth of knowledge across multiple domains of learning”. Sometimes, it is this exploration that ultimately might lead you to a path of a career or lifestyle that you had not been expecting. Often, it is the things that we are interested in that blossom into a fulfilling life and career. Working in a library was not something that I ever envisioned that I would be able to accomplish. Most library systems require a MLIS to work with the library. I found myself connected with the Lane Libraries and will be attending Kent State University in the fall to pursue my MLIS.  As a non-traditional student, I have an entire resume that was completed before I ever thought about getting a college degree, let alone what type I would seek. Now that I am nearing completion on my first degree, I am more appreciative than ever that I choose to receive a Liberal Arts Education. Ultimately, the Liberal Arts Education gives you a solid background that melds various interests you have into a degree you can use to your advantage. It is easier to integrate into employment with an education that is not limited to one subject or idea. Within the Liberal Arts education, there are opportunities to learn varying things and to apply that knowledge in the workplace. Working with patrons that have a variety of differing issues or problems to solve can be very fulfilling. I think that the education that I have received has allowed me to consider things like the intersection of class, race, and gender when it comes to helping patrons. There are various groups and organizations that aim to support the liberal arts. One of those initiatives is LEAP, or the Liberal Education and America’s Promise. They aim to “respond to contemporary demands for more college-educated workers and more engaged and informed citizens”. In this way, there is support to encourage Liberal Arts alumni to become engaging member of their community and to strive to make changes. This type of education works well within a public service job like being a Librarian. 
