	The final two research sessions will both be interviews. One of the interviews will be with a Chinese person at this park. The other interview will be with either another minority or a non-minority at the same location, since anyone else would normally be ignored by the Chinese. These last two research sessions will benefit the ethnography because I will ask about how these people perceive other races as well as the reason for their moving into Bensonhurst. With this, I will gain insight as to how people who settle in certain locations and utilize the same facilities interact and think of one another, especially through terms of race. This will strengthen my data because it will be another step to answering the main question of perception of race in regards with the increasing population of Chinese inhabitants. However, because I am Chinese myself, I might have complications. The time I interview someone will influence their perception. For example, if I interview someone right after they get rejected by Chinese people, he or she will have a closed perception and start creating negative labels of Chinese people. This is also the same vice-versa.
	There are also three outside materials which will provide supplemental backing in my ethnography. Firstly, a New York Times article by Matt Bai, titled “When It's About Race, It's Probably About Age, Too,” explains how age also influences the perception of race. In the earlier example of the young teenagers and their “mock-Chinese,” it shows that children and young teenagers have a closed perception of Chinese people. Because they live in a neighborhood populated with Chinese people, they begin to have closed perceptions. If, for example, one were to live in a location and have never seen a Chinese person before, he or she would not have any perception. In essence, the way people live and how they live influence perceptions on race. Another article portrays an example of negative labeling in the United States. Edward Rothstein’s article in the New York Times, “A Hatred That Resists Exorcism” stated “Racism attaches negative attributes onto people bearing a particular biological heritage. Such characteristics are passed on; they are inherited. In a way, racism is a materialist or physical passion.” In short, people are born with certain characteristics that distinguish themselves from others. This brings about differences, and with differences come racism. This supports my ethnography because it explains how people are born into being labeled. Finally, the last article which will support my ethnography is from Nicole Carter’s article “DOUBLE HAPPINESS. In the melting pot of NYC, these couples think the world of each other” in the Daily News. This “melting pot” as she describes is New York City, where diversity is not uncommon. She describes interracial marriages as well as children. However, what she describes is only for New York City. This is different for other states, as well as other countries. Since New York City is such a diverse city, it is known as a “melting pot” where many races come together. The environment of New York itself is the cause for its inhabitants to perceive race the way they do. 
