In essence, Chinese people like to use other people to speak for them. This can be more often seen in a family. For example, my parents told me I was born so that I would go to school, learn English and do their bidding, such as translating and helping them adapt to American life much easier. I believe all Chinese families in America behave such that first generation Chinese Americans are born to break that silence created by their families. A countermeasure against these haunting ghosts is for the Chinese to beat them at their own game. Learn their language so they can no longer be haunted.
But Kingston also expresses silence in an almost erotic fashion in her fictional story, “On Discovery.” In this story, a man named Tang Ao, in search for a mountain filled with gold, arrives at a land consisting of only women. 
He thought these women were trying to seduce him. Tang Ao is turned into a woman through an excruciating painful process after his capture. There is minimal conversation between the man and the women on the island. The reader only knows that he asks two questions, “what are you doing?” and "can you wrap my legs tighter?" Women “asked Tang Ao to follow them” and said “let us help you off with your armor and boots” seductively as they stripped him naked. Perhaps these events revealed Tang Ao’s lustful thoughts. Although he was being held captive and turned into a woman against his will, he is also a man who enjoys being surrounded by women. When humans think of sex, we have seen countless times that words are unnecessary when expressing love and passion.
 In this fictional story "On Discovery", Kingston's expression of silence takes two different natural human desires, sex and power, and combines them. The silence represents the secret relationship between man and women, similar to the secret relationship we learn of in Kingston's "No Name Woman" between her aunt and the man who impregnated her, yet also represents the power difference one has over the other. In "On Discovery", the women have all the power in this island, while in "No Name Woman", the community has power of the lonesome aunt, who's secret lover, as Kingston fantasized, could have been part of the horde of men and women who vandalized her aunt's home. This is very similar to what we have already seen in Kingston's tour--ghosts judging and singling out certain people. As mentioned earlier in "Girlhood Among Ghosts", Kingston is more talkative in Chinese school, where the people around are familiar, whereas silent in American school where everything is unfamiliar. It is safe to assume that ghosts band together to single out and mock specific people. There is a sort of “bullying” or having more power over others in her texts. Here the women are, in short, “bullying” Tang Ao. They do whatever they want to him, such as play makeover and literally turn him into a woman. They crack the bones on his toes and restrict his diet to that which forces the body to produce more estrogen, turning Tang Ao more feminine. Rather than the common patriarchal society, Tang Ao is now in a matriarchal society. Still, Tang Ao does not say anything. Perhaps this reflects women in the Chinese culture. They say little to no words at all. We can see this reoccurring through Kingston’s texts, where she is not allowed to say anything about her aunt in “No Name Woman”, and Kingston's classmate in "Girlhood Among Ghosts", where she does not mutter even one word while being bullied. Why is it that even through tortuous physical and emotional pain, do people not say anything? As Kingston advises us fearfully, Chinese people like to fix up your tongue to speak for them. In this case, the women fixed up Tang Ao’s body to do their bidding.
