 During this tour, there have been many ghosts obstructing Kingston's path, forcing both Kingston and the reader to feel terrible. The idea of ghosts are a source of negative emotions and cause for silence. 
Not only is Kingston scared of speaking about her aunt to her family, but she is also afraid of her aunt’s ghost. Her family could possibly be afraid of the aunt's ghost as well. Perhaps the banishment of Kingston’s aunt from the family bloodline was a mere façade, a mask to conceal their fear of “the drowned one.” It could be too that they were unconsciously haunted by her aunt’s ghost, but to hide this fear, a façade was created. Her aunt is the family’s “she who must not be named,” where something terrible might occur from the mention of her name.
	On the next stop of Kingston's tour, she takes us to another one of her essays, “The Woman Warrior: Memoirs of a Girlhood Among Ghosts”. Kingston takes the ideas of ghosts to a whole new level, where even real live people are ghosts. Here, Kingston writes about her struggles along with the Chinese students around her in speaking and learning English, and the impact of “ghosts” in her childhood. To begin, I find it fascinating that Kingston terms non Chinese people, such as Americans in Kingston's life, as “ghosts”. There are many ghosts found in this story. 
The literal translation from Cantonese to English for ghost is “gwai”, and if you wanted to call someone a white person, it would be “bok gwai”, or literally “white ghost”, and similarly, “huk gwai”, for black person, or literally “black ghost”. The “ghosts” found in the title of this memoir point at non Chinese people, which means she is constantly surrounded by ghosts as a Chinese person living in America. She says that speaking the English language “spoils my day with self disgust when I hear my broken voice come skittering out into the open.”  Kingston uses ghosts instead of Americans to make her experience seem more terrifying and haunting. It can imply that her weak and broken voice while speaking English are due to these “ghosts” surrounding her, and the fact that she is speaking a “ghost’s language”. 
One reason for Kingston's struggles in speaking English and her broken voice can be ghosts haunting her. Haunting by judging. Nobody likes to be judged for things they do poorly. Judging, especially young children will only discourage them, hence Kingston’s slow growth in school. 
 These experiences were very similar to my own when I first started going to kindergarten. I was a very shy person, did not have many friends and did not speak very fluent English. However, at home I was a different person. I would run around my home screaming, shouting and making sound effects with my toys. Similarly, for Kingston, her silence wasn’t visible in Chinese school.
 In short, it was in “American” school that she, along with other Chinese girls were silent. But she let her voice out in Chinese school. Although there were negro kids (black ghosts) in Chinese school, Kingston did not keep silent. The ghosts were unable to judge her critically in something she excelled at. 
