To enter the thoughts of an animal would be an outstanding breakthrough and an interesting discovery. We would be able to almost communicate with animals. We would know what they wanted, and why they were behaving the way they were. Entering the thoughts of animals would allow us to see how the invisible hands control other species, and how their invisible hands differ or are similar to those invisible hands which control human beings. In addition to the comparison of the invisible hands, we would be able to see the extent of their thoughts. How complex would their thoughts be, or would it even be comprehensible. Surely, we would not be seeing or hearing "oh no a bat is chasing me..." These things should occur instantaneously in the unconscious.
Both authors, Thomas and Langer incorporate chaos into their ideas of thought. 
There is chaos when our minds are disturbed by uncertainty or any other form of uncertainty. This chaos, in turn, can become beneficial chaos, or malignant chaos. 
 In essence, our unconscious mind is forever looped in a never ending cycle of chaos, all controlled by the invisible hand. We can never break free of this cycle because it is just not logically possible. This can be related to my very experience in my writing an assignment. I could not conceive what I wanted to write about, therefore I could not express it. This was then a desire which was created in my unconscious mind. However, it was my unconscious which allowed me to conceive and express my ideas. 
Thomas, Lightman and I would agree that there is something almost supernatural in our minds that forces us to do what we do. Why is it that crickets swerve? Why is it that we have creative moments? Why do we and why can we see ideas? Although we have different opinions to answer these questions, our opinions would contain something that is supernatural. We would agree that having only a conscious mind cannot solve everything. There has to be a force, an invisible hand which pulls the correct strings in the background in order for our consciousness to work properly and allow us to analyze and put together those key ideas that the unconscious mind throws at us.
Although it seems as if the unconscious mind is the root of all thought, and creative moments, it also creates unwanted thoughts and ideas, such as nightmares, or even silly events such as a Taylor Swift song stuck in your head to reoccurring images of something one fears or finds disgust in. It is this unconscious mind where we learn and understand logic and then becomes second nature in addition to our conscious thoughts. 
Not only those moments where we have slips of the tongue, but when we seem to do things instinctively or unconsciously – the force, which does what it wants, when it wants.
