Animals, as well as other organisms on Earth, are being controlled by the invisible hand. Thomas explains that animals also are aware and have thought. He relates the randomness and unpredictability to animals thought, where each and every action or behavior of the animal is considered a thought. This "randomness" and "unpredictability" defines the word "chaos" which is seen in the title of Thomas' essay. Thomas refers chaos to randomness and unpredictability and this randomness and unpredictability is seen in many instances of myself and Lightman. I believe that like the unconscious mind, we do not understand or "see" chaos, but it is what leads our actions and behaviors. 
 It seems as if chaos is not so random and not so unpredictable, rather it drives and guides the actions, where the end result can be foreseen, such as shuffling a deck of cards or mixing cake batter. This is the same for animals, where perhaps their random or unpredictable behavior is guided by "chaos" or in other words, the animal’s unconscious mind giving orders and pulling the strings. For example, a cricket caught on a bat's radar after shooting its ultrasound begins to swerve, which is a cricket's defensive maneuver to get away from bats. The cricket does not say "oh no a bat is chasing me, I should start swerving!" Instead, they instinctively do it because they want to survive. 
Int-1 is essentially a device inside of adult crickets which activate when a sound is heard. Although tiny, this is an unconscious cricket thought, an invisible hand which a cricket, and all beings possess, but cannot control. All beings process thought. Whether it be small thoughts, large thoughts, complex or simple thoughts, each spur from a state of unconsciousness, and become all the big things, as well as the little things which we do.

 Langer’s simile of an animal’s mind to a telephone exchange lacks imagination. There is much more circuitry and complexity which occurs in an animal’s mind. In a way, it kills the dreams of digging deeper and understanding the minds of animals, which ruins the idea of creative moments of animals. Rather than a mystery of the world, Langer portrays the thoughts of animals to be as simple and understandable as telephone exchanges. However, I do believe that these responses an animal creates occur from the unconscious. I define the unconscious mind as anything that isn’t controlled. For example, dreams, reflexes, instincts, thoughts and ideas which occur randomly and spontaneously, reflect one’s desires or becomes a creative moment. Langer’s “Signs and Symbols” discusses the differences between a sign and a symbol and distinguishes humans from animals by how these signs and symbols are used. I agree with Langer in that humans’ minds have a larger capacity to do greater things and accomplish more complex thought, but I also believe animal’s thoughts are complex in their own special way. With our current technology, we cannot understand what goes on in Jeoffrey’s mind, but in the future, when we do have that technology, we will be able to understand our pet’s minds, as well as other inhabitants on Earth. 
