The next week or so was spent processing in and filling out paper work, and receiving, what seemed like a lifetime of vaccinations. I spent 19 years in NYC and had escaped joining a gang, and here I was going through a blooding ritual of bored looking medics stabbing me with needles. I still remember one of those medics, he thought he was going to have a little fun with me, but he was mistaken. Somewhere while going through this gauntlet I heard the word penicillin and remembered that I was allergic to it. I had to get off of this stab them with needles and smile train before one of these pretend doctors gave me the wrong shot and killed me. So I asked him
	“I am allergic to pincilian and if that’s what you’re serving, I’m not interested”
He looked at me with and stood behind me turning my body to face the gauntlet that I had just walked through and said.
	“You see that short blond haired medic”
	I said “yes”
“She is in charge of the penicillin shots, and it looks like she already gave it to you” 
I know that he thought he was having a good laugh with me, but what he was realling doing is finding out what having a 250 pound man losing consciousness, falling backwards and crushing him against a wall feels like moment.
A few more days of getting ready to head to our basic training companies dredged on by, but I somehow just fealt that the rest of the experience would be working out, camping and lifting weights. Then I saw the hats again, this time it was on the head of a very pretty light-skinned Black woman: Drill Sergeant Williams. She had the most welcoming smile. She walked up to all of us made some small talk and wrote a number on the plastic ear protector cases that we wore attached to our uniforms. See I said to myself.
	“The fun is just about to begin”
I as a red blooded 19 year old man began to wonder just how much time I would get to spend with this beautiful friendly lady as a companion. Sure, there were other drill sergeants there making small talk, but they weren’t that interesting so I ignored them. 
After a small while, transportation arrived and we were ready to go to our barracks. This was turning out to be fine, and the uptight drill sergeant that we met when we arrived was just an asshole. 
Our transportation, weird buses with no seats and a few poles to hold onto was new to me, but I guess this is something that country folk had used. We were all laughing and smilinggetting on the bus and getting ready to go to our brand new camp ground. Then, without any warning, hell broke loose. The screaming started. The drill sergeants turned into wild beasts. We were all large military duffle bags and an identical bag on our backs, so moving was difficult, and the pushing started. The drill sergeats started screaming, recruits started crying. Just like that. Everything changed. I smashed my face into my duffle bag. That wasn’t a good idea. My nose started to bleed. I felt like I was about to pass out. It was the craziest experience that I have ever felt in my entire life. A million thoughts were ripping and racing through my mind. The summer camp and gym vision that I had for this trip was starting to roll up like a scroll, revealing something else entirely. 
