	Dr. Thomas Nagel is a philosopher who believes that there is no meaning in life. He comes to this conclusion because there is nothing that can warrant us for doing the things that we do. We cannot make good reasons for things that we do, which leads to circular reasoning. This circular reasoning is “absurd,” according to Nagel, as it does not allow one to make a discrepancy between our pretenses and reality. Because humans are self-conscious creatures, we have the ability to step back from events and reason about them. Since we reason about events, we take them seriously, but we cannot defend why we should take these things seriously. Nagel states that this is not a bad thing that lives are absurd, and that living with “irony” is the best way to go about life.
	“Irony” in this sense can be defined as humans taking their lives seriously, even though nothing warrants them to do so. Some might argue against this conclusion because there are things that can make one’s life worth living if this measurement is taken at an individual point and does not try to encompass a whole human life. Some would say that living life with “irony” makes life trivial and not worth living. Other objections against taking a position of “irony” include the fact that we do not instantly rationalize every action that we engage in as soon as we do it, with many actions involving little to no rationalization whatsoever. However, this conclusion that Nagel poses does not appear as bad as it seems. 
	The conclusion that Nagel reaches does not mean that you need to panic about anything, wish that you were not living, or try to frantically search for something that is not there. It does not involve saying that life itself is not serious. Everyone took their lives seriously before knowing about this argument and its conclusion. If they continue to do so afterwards, then nothing is lost because nothing changed. Living life ironically allows one to get many of the benefits that life has to offer without incurring the negatives that pondering over questions that have difficult or impossible answers will lead to, such as trying to prove or disprove that life is absurd by gathering evidence and testing the evidence to prove the claim.
