	In order to accomplish the goals outlined in the purpose statement, it is necessary to know who the major opponents of the Affordable Care Act are and their reasons for opposing the bill. Firstly, it is important to note the significance of the findings in this paper. To test the hypothesis, an analysis of their reasons for opposing the bill is needed. Finally, it is important to determine if the disapproval of the bill stems from faults in the bill itself or other factors. 

	Since the Affordable Care Act is a very recent bill with discussion happening currently, no factual studies could be used for this paper. Instead, the opinions of the major opponents of the Affordable Care Act are used to determine the validity of their claims by comparing them to what the Affordable Care Act actually is. 
	Firstly, the introduction of what the Affordable Care Act is and the goals of the bill focus on what the bill is actually designed to do and the various routes that are used to accomplish the bill’s goals. This is necessary to understand, as one could not analyze the faults in the bill and non-factual arguments against the bill without actually understanding what the bill is and what it is designed to do. This information is obtained from the United States Department of Health and Human Services and from Ezekiel Emanuel’s Reinventing American Health Care: How the Affordable Care Act will Improve our Terribly Complex, Blatantly Unjust, Outrageously Expensive, Grossly Inefficient, Error Prone System.
	Jeffrey Young’s article from The Huffington Post shows the growth (or lack of) of medical care spending in relation to the growth of the gross domestic product of the United States to the end of 2012. The article also makes a prediction of the future relationship between these values if certain circumstances are met. This information is important as it allows accurate analysis of specific arguments against the Affordable Care Act.
	Dr. Gail Wilensky’s article is from the New England Journal of Medicine. This article was published in 2012. This article focuses on the faults of the United States healthcare system and how the Affordable Care Act cannot fix these faults due to the limitations in the act. Wilensky also gives a potential solution to these shortfalls of the act to better fix the problems of American healthcare.
	Dr. Mark McClellan’s interview in 2011 on the Affordable Care Act shows that the bill is an important step in the direction of improving American healthcare. He agrees with many of the provisions of the bill. He also suggests areas of the bill that need improvement and discusses implications of the bill in its current state. 
Dr. Stuart Butler’s article is from USA TODAY. This article was published in 2012. Butler describes how the Affordable Care Act is unconstitutional due to individual mandates. He also explains that his opinion has changed throughout the years about mandates, as he previously supported them in an alternative to an idea for reforming healthcare that President Bill Clinton created in the 1990s.
