	Cornyn does have admirable goals for American healthcare. However, many of these goals are already a part of the Affordable Care Act. He argues against the bill because it does not include improving doctor-patient relationships (which was not one of the goals of the bill, but can be easily added in if enough support is garnered). His first two points in his idea for a successful reform are similar to ideas given by Wilensky, McClellan, and Butler. However, Cornyn does not state how these can be implemented successfully. His other three points in a successful healthcare reform are already covered under the Affordable Care Act, or can be added into coverage later. Cornyn does envision what he believes American healthcare should be, but his opposition also likely stems due to political reasons. 

	McCaughey believes that a healthcare reform is necessary, but does not think that the Affordable Care Act is good for American citizens. McCaughey uses many references to illustrate this. McCaughey uses unlikely scenarios to garner support for opposing the act.
This quote is not factually based. It is very unlikely (not impossible, but highly unlikely) that someone would be denied from visiting their previous physician(s) and hospital(s) that they prefer, as this is not a part of the bill. Obama intended for the bill to only expand healthcare coverage. Thus, there would not be a provision to actively force consumers away from their current healthcare providers, which would make the situation that McCaughey illustrates in the quote highly unlikely
	McCaughey is an opponent of the individual mandate that is included in the Affordable Care Act, as are Wilensky and Butler. McCaughey compares the individual mandate to “Passing a law saying the only cars we are allowed to buy are four door sedans”. This is not a valid comparison, as this is not what the individual mandate does. The basis of this argument would more closely deal with the lack of choices that Americans are given for healthcare and not how the individual mandate functions.

Obama’s intentions for the bill did not include creating general standards of medical practice, and thus there are none in the bill. Obama only intended to increase the availability (which has occurred) and quality of healthcare.
McCaughey does not believe that preventive care should be a primary concern. 
However, this assumes that all of the resources that are invested in expanding healthcare come from the same resources that are used to take care of those that need urgent care. This is untrue, as healthcare costs have increased since the bill was created in 2010. The rise in costs show that the funding for expanding healthcare come from sources unrelated to those utilized for urgent care. McCaughey’s suggestion would hold true if healthcare spending remained constant or decreased since the bill was created, but this is not the case.
McCaughey also suggests a reform that she believes would be more beneficial to Americans as a whole. One of the purposes of the reform is to make it less complicated, so that a majority of Americans can understand the reform. Her first section of the reform advocates for a free market system where Americans can find the best deals for health insurance throughout the country instead of being locked into deals in their state of residency. This could lead to more people buying insurance as they can find better deals for themselves versus having a smaller selection that might not fit their needs. This also leads to more of a market driven force for insurance providers, which could end up backfiring in the future. Her second section of the reform includes the establishment of medical courts with medical judges that can resolve medical liability cases quicker than they will be solved in the current judicial system. This seems unnecessary if an adequate reform of American medicine is created that would eliminate medical liability altogether. Since this is suggested by McCaughey, it is unlikely that her reform would be able to eliminate this problem. Her third section of the reform sounds very similar to something that is already included in the Affordable Care Act. Her final section of the reform is beneficial to those who are laid off of work and cannot pay their insurance bills. This could be useful to include in a later version of the Affordable Care Act.
