Boehner and McConnell do not have any well supported arguments against the Affordable Care Act. They state that the bill lowers the amount of jobs in America without any statistical data showing that the bill is the sole cause for the decrease in jobs. They also state that the bill increases the cost of American medicine when costs of medicine have only increased at the same rate as the rate of increase of the GDP of the United States since the bill was introduced in 2010. 

There are many opponents of the Affordable Care Act. Some opponents have well-reasoned arguments, and their reasoning should be accounted for in determining future additions and subtractions of the bill. Rational criticisms of the bill lead to improvement in the structure of the bill, which is only good for America long-term. The concept of an individual mandate is argued to be unconstitutional and does not effectively accomplish its goal. The Affordable Care Act does not have much reform in improving quality and cost of healthcare, even though these are two of the main goals of the bill. These are areas in which the bill can be improved, which will improve American healthcare as a whole. Individual mandates are constitutional and accomplish the goal of getting Americans to enroll in an insurance plan. However, reworking individual mandates can potentially provide a greater incentive for more citizens to enroll in a healthcare plan. More effective measures to control costs are necessary as more people become consumers of medicine. Although costs have not increased since the bill was passed in 2010 any faster than the rate of GDP growth, more enrolled citizens will eventually lead to higher costs if medicine does not become cheaper and more efficient in the future. Effective care will help to reduce these costs, as effective treatment leads to a decrease in the number of overall procedures necessary per patient. Making the bill less complicated and including a section to aid laid-off workers in paying their health insurance plans can be beneficial in expanding enrollment and gaining general approval of the bill.
There are also opponents of the bill that do not offer solutions to fix the problems of the bill or oppose the bill due to political reasons. These reasons are inappropriate reasons to limit the expansion of American healthcare. Opposing the bill while offering no alternatives is counterproductive as the bill has improved American healthcare since it was introduced in 2010. Opposing the bill due to political reasons does not allow the bill to be improved as constructive criticism of the bill is not taken into consideration.  It is important for citizens to understand the Affordable Care Act (no need to memorize all 1,000 pages of it) so that they can distinguish well thought-out criticisms of the bill from opposition that does not stem from the bill itself. This will allow citizens to make informed decisions on their healthcare because they will know their rights under the bill and it will also allow them to participate in the discussions that are currently occurring.
