Both Frankl and Tolstoy have ideas of what they view as overarching purposes of life. These visions were formed in vastly different circumstances, but they both can be applicable for use in answering this prompt. 
I do not feel that I live my life in this way, as "what is expected" can change at any given moment. One day it might be necessary to sleep as I am too tired to do anything else. Another day it might be necessary for me to visit a sick relative. Both of these things would not be “expected” in my day-to-day life, but are necessary to stay sane and to give support to a loved one. Tolstoy argues that faith gives an overarching purpose in life by saying that everything is done "for the good." This is very difficult for other people to judge someone on, as someone who does not think their own actions are "good" will not have a meaning in life, even if other people see benefit in those actions. This also leaves open a large area of interpretation, because what exactly is "good" in the first place? Terrorists believe that they are doing “good” by defending their beliefs. Most people would agree that this is not “good,” as it causes the deaths of many involved. In this sense, I do not think that my actions have an overarching purpose in the ways that Tolstoy describes.
I do not agree that it is necessary that Frankl's or Tolstoy's overarching purposes are necessary for warding off despair. For some people, looking for more concrete concepts that one can actually see and experience would be a better way to ward despair. For example, thinking about a Snickers bar when one is craving a Snickers bar does not ward off the craving. In fact, it would likely enhance this craving. For some people, looking into the future while experiencing a bad situation might be useful as it will provide motivation. Others, however, might become depressed as they realize that they are nowhere close to the light at the end of the tunnel. Their descriptions for meanings in life might be appropriate for some, but I do not think that they are the only ways that one can live a life without despair. For example, if one is genuinely apathetic about everything, then they will not have any despair to ward off (in this case, their life would likely not have “meaning” in the sense discussed by this class, but is just to show that Frankl and Tolstoy’s definitions are not a catch-all.) Attempting to answer the question of meaning in life can cause discomfort in one’s life if one thinks the answer will magically make life better, but the lack of an answer to the question does not make life meaningless.
