	Butler now believes that an individual mandate is not required due to experiences after the Clinton Administration. He argues that many people will buy insurance regardless of incentives or penalties if it is easily available to purchase. This would still lead to the same result of near universal healthcare coverage without intruding on those who do not want to be covered for personal reasons. Advancement in risk adjustment tools improve the stability of voluntary insurance to the point where incentives are not necessary. Finally, the meaning of the term has changed throughout the years to mean something vastly different.
 
	Cornyn admits that there is a problem with American healthcare. 

He argues that the Affordable Care Act limits job growth in America and has many prohibitive costs. He also lists all of the instances where he personally opposes the bill in the Senate.
	Cornyn does give an outline of what he would consider an adequate reform of American healthcare. He breaks this down into five key points. He argues that healthcare must be made more affordable to address the rapidly rising costs of medical care. He suggests that this is done through reforms and giving consumers greater access to medical information. He argues that there must be choices in healthcare so that individuals can select plans that best suit their needs. It must be ensured that all individuals have access to affordable health insurance, including those with pre-existing conditions. He argues that doctor-patient relationships must be saved and that Medicare must be saved.
	McCaughey does a good job of explaining exactly what the Affordable Care Act is in the first section of her book. She explains how the bill works and how this can have an effect on American healthcare coverage. However, she uses unlikely scenarios to convey how the bill is inadequate. 

She states that the bill violates the First Amendment by requiring that coverages include birth control. Focusing on preventative healthcare shortchanges the extremely sick by not giving them the adequate attention necessary to make a recovery.
	McCaughey suggests that a more effective healthcare reform needs to be more simplistic so that a majority of American citizens can actually understand it. A reform must also apply to the people who create the reform (Congress legislators) and that they should not be exempt from the reform. She has created an example of a successful reform and summarizes it in this book. The full reform is published on her website.
	McCaughey’s idea of a successful reform includes four sections. The first section entails that insurance can be purchased outside of state boundaries. There should also be a provision to prevent health insurance providers from dropping coverage when one is sick. The second section establishes effective medical courts to get quicker verdicts on medical cases. These courts should be presided over by judges that know the medical system and can distinguish authentic cases from non-authentic cases. The third section gives states incentives to provide or improve their high-risk pools to help those with pre-existing conditions. The final section includes an extension of the coverage that the COBRA subsidy provides. The COBRA subsidy gives temporary assistance to laid-off workers.
