	John Cornyn is the one of the two current senators for the state of Texas. He has opposed the Affordable Care Act at every possible opportunity. He agrees that American healthcare should be reformed, but does not agree with the Affordable Care Act and suggests five major points to be satisfied for a successful reform.
Dr. Betsy McCaughey is the author of many books that attempt to show the faults of the Affordable Care Act. These books do a good job of introducing the Affordable Care Act to someone who did not know anything about it. She offers an alternative solution for a healthcare reform. She also makes claims that have little basis from the Affordable Care Act.	The most recent of these books is Beating Obamacare 2014: Avoid the Landmines and Protect Your Health, Income, and Freedom, and this book is used because it outlines the current situation of the bill. 
Finally, John Boehner and Mitch McConnell recently wrote a piece in the Wall Street Journal after the Republicans gained control of the House and the Senate in the 2014 midterm elections. This piece includes repealing the Affordable Care Act because the bill does not fit with the Republican ideals. John Boehner is the Speaker of the House and Mitch McConnell is the upcoming Majority Leader of the Senate.
This report is relevant to the current topic as this report defines what the Affordable Care Act actually is and what it is meant to do. Interpretations of the shortcomings of the bill and potential methods to improve the bill to further accomplish the goals that the bill was designed for can be created from the information gathered. This paper also allows arguments against the Affordable Care act that are not based on what the Affordable Care Act actually is to be disregarded. 
	Wilensky argues that American healthcare suffers from three major problems; millions of people go without health insurance, healthcare costs rise at very high rates, and that the quality of healthcare is not ideal. The individual mandate portion of the bill intended to penalize people who are not covered so that they would be incentivized to gain coverage to avoid paying the penalty. She argues that many people would rather pay the penalty due to the miniscule penalty in comparison to the cost of enrolling in a healthcare coverage plan, especially among the young and those who earn modest incomes.
	Wilensky also argues that the Affordable Care Act only expands coverage and does not ensure that care is cost-effective, effective and affordable. The bill retains all of the predominately fee-for-service strategies used in Medicare, as this is where much of the coverage expansion is financed from. Medicare is also given “productivity adjustments”, which assume that medical institutions will become more productive over time. If costs are not reduced, than approximately 15% of medical providers will lose money by 2019 and 25% by 2030.
	The Affordable Care Act contains no readjustments on physician payment, which is argued as the most dysfunctional part of the Medicare program. This is important to note as the Medicare program is one of the largest medical programs in America, and thus a significant portion of medical costs can be eliminated with an effective physician payment reform. Wilensky argues that the current setup of the Affordable Care Act incentivizes physicians to give more expensive treatments that will not necessarily benefit the health of the patients in order to maximize profits due to the setup of the bill. Wilensky does state that ACOs are a good first step in attempting to lower the costs of medical care, but they are ineffective as they serve as nothing more than an incentive in their current state.
