With the release of 2017’s Thor: Ragnarok, Marvel Studios has released seventeen films in the past nine years, and it shows no signs of slowing down. In 2016, Marvel even made a complicated new deal with Sony, to whom they had sold the rights to one of their most popular comic book characters, Spider-Man, in the 1990s. This deal would allow Marvel to use Spider-Man in their Marvel Studios movies while also allowing Sony to make their own movies, disconnected from the Marvel Cinematic Universe, using other Spider-Man related characters. There have been recent talks of Marvel gaining the rights to many of their characters back from 20th Century Fox, as well. If this deal were to occur, then characters from series such as X-Men, Deadpool, and Fantastic Four could theoretically appear in Marvel Studios’ movies, greatly expanding the storytelling potential.  
The unprecedented success of the Marvel Cinematic Universe has changed the ways that both audiences and movie studios approach movies. Due to Marvel’s slow and steady approach, audiences are now accustomed to seeing several movies per year that tell their own stories while setting up potential storylines for future movies in the same series. The post-credits scene has become a staple of serialized movies, thanks to Marvel. Much of their success is accredited to their patience in setting up the world, their devotion to interesting and unique characters, and their willingness to take risks with their films.  
While the structure and tone of most Marvel Studios films are similar, they span multiple genres. Captain America movies fit well in the espionage thriller sub-genre, Guardians of the Galaxy films fall directly in the space fantasy category, the Thor movies range from Shakespearean drama to pulp science fiction, and Doctor Strange plummets audiences into psychedelic surrealism. Considering that movies, in general, have lasted for as long as they have by making film after film that fit into already existing genres, there is no reason to doubt that, as long as they continue to innovate, Marvel Studios’ legacy can continue to grow.  
It is impossible to determine how long Marvel Studios will remain successful. The nature of the industry lends itself to quickly shifting trends and success is never guaranteed. The impact that it has had on the industry is undeniable, however. Instead of one movie or a trilogy of movies, studios will continue to attempt to emulate Marvel’s success in creating multi-year franchises. This manner of thinking would have been considered audacious only a decade ago. By taking risks, challenging the status quo, and striving to do something that had never been achieved, Marvel Studios has irrevocably changed the movie landscape for studios and audiences alike.  
