Ultimately, according to Andrew Liptak’s article on TheVerge.com, Okorafor won the battle. The World Fantasy award trophy is changing, in 2017, to a statue of a twisted tree superimposed over a moon.   
A more recent example lies in the case of Victor Salva. In his indiewire.com article, Zack Sharf wrote that Salva, in 1988, was convicted of molesting Nathan Forrest, the 12-year-old actor and star of his film Clownhouse. The article points out that Salva has directed several movies since then, including Disney’s Powder and the Jeepers Creepers franchise. His newest directorial effort, Jeepers Creepers 3, releases theatrically in October, 2017. 
There have been protest efforts in response to Salva’s continued employment. Sharf’s article states that “The Union of British Columbia Performers made an official warning against Silva and urged actors not to audition or accept a part in the movie after a casting call revealed Salva was looking for an 18-year-old to play a character whose stepfather made “overtures” at her when she was 13.” There have been debates on social media discussing whether or not he should be allowed to direct more films, and if his existing films should be pulled from release.  
However, there is a counter-argument to this opinion, as well. In his bloody-disgusting.com article, Trace Thurman doesn’t excuse Salva of his crime, but he does state that Salva’s films should not be discontinued and that there should be no restriction on future releases of his existing library. Thurman also points out that the same amount of concern wasn’t expressed whenever Salva would release a lesser-liked or lesser-known film. He asserts that “If you want to protest Salva, I 100% support your right to do that and I do understand, but you can’t be selective in your protests. You’ve got to be all in, even if his movie is getting dumped on home video. You can’t just protest only his three successful films.” Thurman’s implication is that people have a tendency to be selective about which artists they decide to boycott, depending on the severity of the crime and the success of his movies.  One such example is that of Roman Polanski, who was convicted of sexual assault towards a 13-year-old girl. 
Polanski was arrested in 1977 for the sexual assault of 13-year-old Samantha Geimer. Kate Feldman of nydailynews.com reported that, although he did spend 42 days in jail and a year in a Swiss prison, that he was denied the request to guarantee that he won’t serve any more jail time in the United States. Polanski fled the U.S. in 1978, only a few hours before he was to be sentenced for the crime, and has remained outside the country ever since. 
Unlike Salva, Polanski has received several awards for his work. Ariston Anderson of hollywoodreporter.com wrote that Polanski is to be honored with the Ischia Global Film and Music Fest’s 2017 Legend Award, which is essentially a lifetime achievement award. Polanski has also been the recipient of several awards in the past, most notably an Oscar, Palme d’Or, and BAFTA for 2002’s The Pianist. Even Geimer has spoken out in Polanski’s defense. As reported by Gene Maddaus with variety.com, she states that the media attention is worse than the assault, adding “I don’t think that I should be forced to lay my feelings bare and have a pity party for myself just for people’s entertainment, and I’m not going to do it. I am fine.”
