As Susan reads the novel, the film switches back and forth between the novel, her life in the real world, and the past, when she was married to Tony. The audience discovers through these flashbacks that Tony was a struggling writer and a sensitive artist type. This is what Susan loved about him in the beginning, and it is also the thing that eventually drove her away. In her visualization of the novel, the protagonist looks just like her ex-husband. His wife looks a lot like her. It is clear that her reading of the novel is leading her down the road of nostalgic rumination, as well as forcing her to compare her old life and what it might have become to her current joyless situation.  
As Tom Ford, the director of the film puts it, "she sees a photo by Richard Misrach, with two guys pointing guns at each other in a grassy field. Later, when she’s reading his novel, the characters are in that same grassy field, which we re-created. She might not even know it, and the audience might not be conscious of it. But there are all these little connections and they hopefully register unconsciously". As happens to everyone when engrossed in a novel, the real world influences the version of the story that is visualized, and vice versa. In sending the draft of the novel to Susan, Tony has effectively put himself back into the forefront of her consciousness. He has finally been able to communicate to her, through the power of metaphorical storytelling, how he was left feeling lost, alone, and battered when she left him.  
Susan has emotional reactions to the novel several times throughout her reading. Tony's plan has worked. She has seen his point of view and felt his pain. She has been forced to hold up a mirror to herself and her current world and see it for what it is, "aesthetically beautiful, but devoid of substance, an empty exercise in wealth and beauty". Through written correspondence, they agree to meet for dinner after she finishes the novel.  
In this dinner comes the second, and more realistic, form of revenge. Susan arrives at the restaurant on time. She finishes one drink and Tony still has not arrived. She orders another, and the realization begins to set in. He is not going to show up. This is Tony's revenge. In not showing up for the dinner, he is "forcing her to confront her own superficiality, how easily she’s won back. On one hand, it’s a childish thing to do, rubbing her face in her own attraction; on the other, it’s the ultimate rejection of what he represents to her". Tony has finally succeeded at writing his novel. It's not far-fetched to imagine that he may be looking forward to a successful career doing what he loves. He just wanted to make sure that Susan was well aware that she would not be a part of that life.  
Revenge is likely to be a popular subject in entertainment for years to come. As times change, the depiction of revenge on film is sure to evolve, as well. Considering the many forms that it can take, it will be interesting to see how the art of tomorrow shines a light on the injustices of today. Society may evolve and humanity may become more enlightened, but as long as the catharsis continues to be as satisfying as it has always been, stories of revenge will remain.  
