My favorite TV show I think has to be South Park. I enjoy nearly all the episodes there are out for it. South Park touches upon every subject in a humorous way that some find offensive, perhaps even too offensive for TV. I think a show that can push boundaries in that way is important for society. South Park being a cartoon show has many ways of expressing ideas that wouldn’t be possible even with special effects, CGI and green-screens. The show’s distinct art style is employed brilliantly in episodes, sometimes even being the punchline (like with the Canadian’s looking and talking differently than the residents of South Park). 
        I’ve been watching South Park since I was a young boy. I was forbidden to watch South Park because of its intense, and insulting-at-times humor. Of course the show is considered an adult cartoon, but it is more than just a slapstick humor show. It is a show that presses the philosophical mind, and makes one question the reality we live in. This is achieved by the brilliant writers and producers of the show, Trey Parker and Matt Stone. The show has been running since the late 90s, and has produced a new season every year since then. Topics have ranged from George Bush scandals, to today’s societal issues of political correctness and the newly elected President of the United States. Throughout the seasons, you can relive the news of the day in a humorous way. It’s refreshing to revisit history through an adult comedy cartoon.
        I’m a person who enjoys humor, we all need a good laugh! I find that when I watch comedy it is hard to be upset or angry about something that happened during the day. Watching South Park let's me relax through its absurdity and pop news mockery. Reading and watching the news make people upset, and through the lens of South Park they want their viewers to be shocked, offended, they want an emotional reaction whatever it may be. South Park’s trolliness is the modern day sarcasm, with those who get offended being taken as foolish and easily upset. They deserve to be trolled because they don’t get the absurdity, they don’t get the sarcasm, they don’t get the point! It’s a show meant to make fun of everything for the sake of making fun of everything, not to take a stance or make a statement about issues. The material they present to the viewer is created to mock the majority, to create the biggest upset. They want the largest audience? They have to play with the biggest fire to stir up the pot. Trey Parker and Matt Stone know this, and they’ve mastered it over the years. 
        What other show even comes close to South Park? No other show is brave enough to do what South Park does with their humor, and their storylines. The show has created more controversy than you can shake a stick at. The only other master of cartoon comedy is Family Guy, which I consider to be a lighter version of South Park. It is the warm-up show to absurdist humor that kids and teenagers are going to need to view South Park with an open mind. An open mind is necessary to navigate the perceived closed mindedness of the South Park universe. It is hard to pinpoint the producers’ personal views on a variety of issues, but there is one thing for certain -- they just don’t give a damn what other people think. Unapologetic for their creation, and I have thank them for their bravery and service for the fight against censorship.
