On December 17th, 2011, Kim Jong-il died giving his song, the unknown Kim Jong-un power over the regime. The people did not know who Kim Jong-un was, with defectors reporting they did not know hear any information about Kim Jong-un the year he rose to power. Kim Jong-un’s regime has become distrusting of foreign media and immigration/emigration from North Korea, essentially walling citizens in. Cautiously, and perhaps wisely, the regime is experimenting with opening up the economy as a way of adapting to the inevitable growth of the market inside the country. With increasing tensions between the United States and its allies, and North Korea with its very few allies, along with economic sanctions against North Korea, the economic fate is uncertain of this country.
Today, North Korea spends 8 billion USD (16% of its GDP according to NK, 30-50% presumed) on its military, while South Korea spends 33 billion USD on its military. The United States spends 471 billion USD on its military, while China spends 145 billion USD. The numbers are clear, the United States has far more spending than North Korea and China combined when it comes to military spending. If, North Korea carried through with its threats and attempted a war, the United States and its allies could easily thwart the military operations and cease Kim Jong-un’s regime from its reign. This is a consequence Kim Jong-un is not willing to take at the moment, because he realizes he has no strong ally support. China is close to North Korea, but China is not going to be willing to fight to the death for Kim Jong-un’s heavily sanctioned actions. 
Unfortunately, North Korea doesn’t seem to be willing to change its aggressive militaristic ways. Overspending on its military instead of development is only necessary because of the regime’s past rhetoric and threats. The regime feels it needs to have strong aggression as a strong defense, without that the nation wouldn’t be so threatening. The issues of North Korea are not new to its people, with the times changing the people may not have to suffer for much longer. 
