Currently, the UK and the EU negotiating teams meet face-to-face a week out of every month, with their duties to get an agreement on the rights of both UK and EU citizens after the UK leaves, how much the UK will have to pay for leaving aka. The “divorce bill”, and what happens to the Northern Ireland border (outside of the EU with Brexit, and outside of the Republic of Ireland which is a part of the EU). Northern Ireland and Scotland both voted to remain with the EU, while the British side of the UK voted to leave. This leaves Northern Ireland stuck, while Scotland is calling for a second referendum to take place.
The costs of Brexit currently and in the future are up for debate and uncertainty. The EU wants the UK to pay any remaining debts and fees they have to the union. This estimate ranges from 50 billion euros to 100 billion euros, with Brexit Secretary David Davis saying “We will not be paying 100 billion euros”, according to the BBC. It is apparent there will be decreases and increases on various products being imported and exported, currently the British pound is worth less after the referendum in both the US and the EU.
Leaving the EU is going to be a time-staking process for both the UK, the EU, the US, and many other countries across the globe. There is a bill currently in the parliament of the United Kingdom, called the “Great Repeal Bill (European Union [Withdrawal] Bill)” that will end the use of EU law in the UK. It is supposed to be incorporate all EU laws and policies into the UK style of law all at once. This is a huge process legally, economically and socially for all of us. There are those in the UK who are citizens in the EU, and there are those in the EU who are citizens of the UK. There will be legislation debates, legal disputes, financial deficits, and a lot of headaches before the UK can fully leave the EU. It’s a learning process for everyone, as nothing of this sort has ever been done before. UK’s exit is going to leave a hole in the EU, will the EU be able to stand on its own without the UK? Will the UK be able to resist pressure from the EU? Only time will tell.
