I am currently studying HR Management. My ideal job after graduation would be an HR Generalist position. This would be my objective, to get hired into a company as an HR representative with 6 months after graduation with a salary of at least $30,000 a year.
My strategies to achieve this will be simple. I will apply for any position I see online. I will have a professional resume with professional reference available for potential employers available. I will follow up with every application and every interview, and I will dress the part when attending said interviews.
My Value proposition would be: “I bring to companies a vast amount of knowledge from working in every industry. With a great attitude, a background in customer service and even better communication skills your Human Resources Department will see a change and productivity will increase due to higher morale.”
The targeted organizations would be companies in Northern Michigan that are looking for HR employees within their organization. Also, my current employer would be a target to see if I could grow within the company.
Internal factors that will affect my plans are that I will only have an associate’s degree, where many other applicants will have bachelors. Also, my lack of flexibility in a schedule because of my children would be one thing employers may look down on. External factors would include lack of jobs in Northern Michigan, there isn’t a lot of employers in this area of the state. Another external factor would be other candidates for the job. Because Northern Michigan has a lot of people but not a lot of opportunities employers receive many applications for one job. If I didn’t get my application in right away there is a chance mine would not even get looked at.
The market development Mars pursued when they introduced personalized m&m’s was taking their existing product the m&m and personalizing it for gifts, celebrations, and even promotional products for companies to market their name. They already knew that people like to give away candy for celebrations, parties and etc so they took it one step further and allowed consumers to personalize them, which would only make business grow. They product market is everyone from the everyday consumer to bigger companies just wanting to get their name out. 
