Wojan Window and Door is a family based company that manufactures custom commercial aluminum windows and sliding glass doors. I am just 5 weeks into my new job as the customer service representative working for this company. I decided to do my project on this company in specific so while I was doing school work for a grade I would also continue to learn about the Window Industry and the company I am working for as well. 
	When most people look at a window they do not see the complex structure that it really is. Part of my training during the first week of employment included watching how a window is built. I was completely amazed to see that a window starts out as glass and metal and through cutting, machining and assembling you get a window. Now as a consumer you would wonder what makes their windows any different than the windows you can buy at the store. Like most people I asked this question as well. The windows and sliding glass doors that Wojan manufactures are made from aluminum, they can be blast proof, impact proof, and are designed to be energy efficient for maximum thermal performance.   They are used in buildings of all sorts from Hotels to Government buildings. 
	Wojan Window and door has two locations for manufacturing. It’s corporate office and main production plant is located in Charlevoix, MI, the rest of production is done in Coldwater, MI. The privately owned company is a family started business that has grown since it first opened doors making wood storm windows. They are a company committed to making a quality product and suggest so in their mission. It is short but brief and says “Quality Windows and Door for All Seasons”. To the customers of Wojan this means that they are getting a great product. The windows are reliable, built to last and can be used for thermal efficiently anywhere regardless of what kind of building they are going in. To the employees this shows that they are building and supporting a product that the company stands behind. Wojan is committed to making a quality product, and that reflects down to the way the employees are treated, and the company is ran. 
Compared to bigger companies that have buildings full of employees, Wojan has a total of 20-25 support staff, and about 100 operators combined in both plants. Think about this; have you ever called a company and went through an automated system just to be put on hold for 5-10 minutes before getting to talk to a live person? That doesn’t happen at Wojan. A live person picks up the phone, when quotes are sent in real people will personalize a quote for you, and the product id manufactured by real people and not machines. They are a customer friendly company that is about making a product specific to a customers needs.
Wojan’s success has been the ability to produce high performance thermal efficient windows and doors. They do this with glass that is coated and then put together to form an insulated glass unit or IGU. The IGU consists of two pieces of glass with a spacer between them filled with argon gas. The windows and frames are designed to meet standards and are tested by outside performance to make sure they meet certain standards. Currently Wojan Windows are used in the specifications for Marriot, Hilton and other hotel chains. This means that companies will use Wojans specific window types when getting quoted for jobs. Wojan is also the preferred supplier for many hotel chains, and have helped set a standard in aluminum window design.

