The first and obvious choice would be to use the IRS website or telephone system to ask questions regarding tax information. There are many tax laws out there and if you are not sure of the answer and cannot find it then check the IRS database to see about finding the answer. There are also places such as H&R Block, Liberty Tax, and Jackson Hewitt that are all tax preparers. Although they may not have as much education and background they do have “professional training” and may be able to research the problem and question to give you an answer. Other options are CPAs, or certified public accountants, they should be familiar with all the tax laws and be able to provide you with the information you need. There is also always online forums, and asking people you know, but those are less likely to provide you with a knowledgeable answer as much as the other options.
According to our textbook “The greater the rate at which time affects value (r), or the greater the opportunity cost and risk, the more time affects value.” What that suggests is that the higher the interest rate is the greater the return will be for various accounts. Time plays a role into it because the longer you accumulate interest on an account the more you will make through compound interest. The relationship is that the higher or lower an interest rate changes the rate of return based on the time interest in being collected or gained on an account.
Credit allows consumers to buy things that they do not have money in the bank for to make purchases. This could be an everyday purchase of a meal, to a home, a car, a loan for education or anything that a person might. I personally use credit for my car, and have 1 credit card that I use to make purchases which I pay off every month to earn points on. Hopefully one day I will be able to own a home using credit, but that would be the extent of what I would use credit for. Advantages to using credit are that it simply allows you to buy things now even if you don’t have the money and pay for them later. It gives people the ability to own homes, to purchase reliable vehicles and to afford an education, with payment arrangements over time. The disadvantages to using credit is that there is interest added on to the original amount borrowed and this can add a significant amount on to the repayment depending on how much is borrowed. When a person makes a plan to borrow money and make payments they often times forget about the interest that comes along with repayment. This can cause financial hardship when the repayment is more than expected.  
Budgets are important because they help us to accomplish our financial goals. It is one thing to say I want to save $10.00 a week and put it aside, but to set up a budget to actually do so helps to accomplish the goal of actually saving the money. According to our textbook a budget is “a document of action.”  What budgets do is put financial plans into action, which help people accomplish their goals over time. Budgets should reflect what is happening at the moment. As your life situations change your budget should change to reflect it. There may be a period of time when your bills are higher such as the winter, or you are making more money. You can change your budget to save more when you are making more or spend less when your bills are higher. A budget should be remade as often as it needs to be to reflect your current financial situation.

