Groups are distinguished by what types of consumers buy certain products. This could be anything from age, to gender, to social class, even culture. You can determine this by finding something that a group of consumers all have in common. Different kinds of people will generally group together purchasing certain products; you can research this information and group them together. People from different cultures buy different products because their culture tells them to eat, dress and act different ways than other cultures. Things that we consume in America would be very different than it Asia. Every culture is different and has things that are more important to them than in other cultures.
Routine decision making involves making decisions about things that you may have already purchased or a product that you normally use. A limited decision is more of an impulse purchase and would be something you make a quick decision to purchase based on little knowledge of the product. An extensive decision would be a decision that has to be decided in time about something that is not an easy answer. Generally when making a limited or routine decision are low involvement decisions. Just recently I was in the store and purchased the same can of hair mousse I use every day, this would be a routine decision. An example of an extensive decision I had to make recently was buying PowerAde bottles or liquid flavors to add into water. I did my research and compared pricing before making a purchase. 
To make a sell in the plant I would try to find out the prices that the competitors are marketing their products for and try to sell mine for less. I would check with the plant and make sure all of their needs are being met and make suggestions for products that the other companies may not offer. If I was the 40% vendor I would try to relate to the information I know about the company and focus in on their values. What information can I give them that would convince them to purchase more products from me? It might be that they like using online ordering, and the other company doesn’t offer it. Simple things like this could make or break a sale.
A product that I think more people should use is a NEAT desk organizer. The product is used to scan and store documents for personal and business in directories so businesses can access the information quickly and store it efficiently. The product is used in bigger companies where storing accessible information is a must for the business to function. Where marketers could reposition the product is with homeowners and smaller businesses. I would start by showing how much of an impact Neat makes in regards to managing money, time and storage space. 
To reposition the product in the smaller business market I would first start by testing the product. I would do market research and come up with statistics on how it helped with efficiency. I would campaign with businesses within a certain size and get the product out there and being used in more of that middle market where it would benefit the company. This would then reposition the Neat Organizer as not only a product for the big companies in the world but also for the smaller companies that have not gone paperless yet. It would be marketed as a product for any business size.
