When walking into my home you would notice that the color pink is present in many areas from the bathroom, to my daughter’s room and into my bedroom. As a single parent with two little girls our home is fit to for a home full of females. You will also find toys everywhere, and a lot of girl’s clothes and decorations on the wall. In my daughters room we have princesses and bedding colored purple and pink. In the living room I have lots of framed pictures of my kids from birth to toddler age.  Our home is organized to our needs, but to many others they would find it chaotic. I am not the best cook so I do not have a lot of specialty kitchen items for cooking that people would have. My children are still growing and snack often, so you will find a lot of fruit and easy snacks around to appease there always hungry tummies. This would distinguish me as a younger generation parent; I would be targeted for these types of items. Things for children, easy organizing tools, quick and good for you snacks, and bright colored home accessories to name a few. I would be the prime target for anything that pertains busy parents any products that help make things more efficient. 
For a comparison if you were to walk into my mothers home you would find a very clean very well organized living space. In her kitchen she has a lot of kitchen utensils and tools because she cooks lots of different things. There isn’t any children’s toys lying around, and everything is picked up and has a place.  Her choice of decorating is not in bright girly colors like my home but she chooses more of a country theme, and loves cows, so she has cow themed items throughout her home. Her furniture is newer and nicer, and the decorations on the wall are not of her 4 children all throughout. Yes you may find some pictures of my sisters and me but it does not cover her walls like in my own home.  
The first thing I would say about the things that I purchase compared to my mom is that she buys things for herself more. She doesn’t spend money on a lot of junk food and doesn’t have to spend as much money day to day on things because she doesn’t have young children around. Where I would be more targeted as someone who needs to get the best value for certain items she would be targeted for items that could be pricier. I spend most of my income on things for my children. In fact, I would say that I spend very little money on myself because my children are preschool aged and still at a point where they need a lot of things all the time. She would be targeted as a person who puts thought into things for her home, who wants to make more of an investment into items for her home. Compared to me who looks for things that cost less, possibly even secondhand. When I go shopping I have to plan a meal friendly to my kids’ tastes so my meals are a lot different than meals that are cooked in her home. 
I live a kid-friendly lifestyle, at this point my life and everything I do and buy is somehow related back to my children. This is how companies target me. As my children grow up and I make more money I am sure I will become a target for other products that companies make.
