Finally, with the market data, Rciahrds would seek out an angel investor who had business connections preferably in the traveling industry.  Alex and the angel investor would negotiate in regards to the product, finalizing the patent, and the terms of their arrangement and exit strategy.  During this time, Alex would try to persuade the angel investor into giving him some money up front to expand his business; in exchange the angel investor would act not only as a financial backer but also a mentor.  The angel investor would bring much more experience, capital, and know-how to the table so that “The O-Fold” could really be brought to the marketplace in full force.  The main purpose of the angel investor(s) is to promote the product using their experience and networking capabilities, and to provide capital for costs that are beyond Alex’s means, such as distribution, marketing, patenting, etc.  The goal would be to remain unnoticed by large luggage companies while still increasing market share and profits.  
The exit strategy we would select for the business model is for Alex to eventually sell his interest in the company to a popular, successful luggage company, and continue receiving royalties based on percentage of sales.  However, first the angel investors would have to be compensated.  Alex would only be able to sell the company once he had reimbursed the angel investors for both the money they had invested in the product and company, and also the negotiated return on their investment (the terms would have been negotiated when they initially agreed to work together). 
Although there is no way to know how long this will take, we would make it a goal to sell the company within 4-5 years, as the angel investors may lose interest quickly if they don’t see a return on their investments within a reasonable time frame.  Richards must ensure the terms of selling the company include future royalties based on the percentage of sales.  The main determining factor in signaling the time to exit would be once “The O-Fold” had reached its market cap.  Once the success of the product is known to big competitors in the market, it would only be a matter of time before rivals took measures to take over “The O-Fold’s” market share.  Upon selling the company, Alex would then be free to pursue a job in finance and accounting, while still reaping the monetary benefits of “The O-Fold.
