One prime example of predatory policing is the case involving Minneapolis police SWAT team member Timothy Edward Carson from 2010.  Carson was a Marine veteran and had been an officer with the department since 2007 and during that time he had received neither disciplinary actions nor any individual commendations.  With the assistance of the FBI and the Apple Valley Police Department, Carson was charged with several counts of aggravated robbery after it was discovered that he had robbed several area convenience stores and banks, he later confessed.  
While many speculate as to why Carson committed these crimes, it is important to set speculation aside and to look at the research to determine underlying causes of police deviance.
The question, “Why does police deviance happen?” does not have a simple, concrete answer; however, there are different theories that attempt to provide reasoning behind such acts.  The “rotten apple” theory describes a more individualistic approach to describe human failure.  Individual police officers that engage in behavior deemed misconduct are sometimes deemed “bad apples” whose deviant ways have the potential to taint other members of the department.  
Research does suggest that the majority of officers involved in police misconduct are isolated to a small group of officers who are more problem-prone and more likely to be involved in misconduct.  Thus, the individualistic approach may not a viable explanation for police corruption; however, a more functional approach may be a more accurate explanation to the reasoning behind police corruption.  

In essence, it is the opposite of the “bad apple” theory, and is explained by the fact that the nature and structure of policing provides the very opportunities to learn the patterns that have been engrained in police officers from generation to generation who practice deviant police conduct.  
Finally, the “rotten orchards” theory comes into play when the organization is deemed corrupt it and this represents an institutionalized model of systemic failure of integrity systems.   
When referring to systems, it includes both the formal systems of the police organization, the criminal justice system, and the broader socio-political context, and the informal systems of collusion deals, bribes, and an understanding amongst deviant officers in determining how the corruption is to be properly organized, conducted, and rationalized.  After examining different theories that attempt to explain the causes of police deviance, it is important to examine how it affects public attitudes towards the police.
Miller and Davis comprised a survey that incorporated questions related to public attitudes regarding police in 10 different areas (such as fighting crime, helping people who have been victims of crime, working with residents to solve local problems, etc.) and personal and vicarious contacts with the police (such as negative personal experience of a police-initiated contact, negative experience of a respondent-initiated contact, negative vicarious experience of a police-initiated contact, and negative vicarious experience of public-initiated contact), and media influences.    Within the survey, the researchers also measured how media, neighborhoods, and demographics influence survey responses.  The analysis involved five New York City precincts, each within a different borough (district) and each with a different socio-economic status.  
