"Where are all everything?" We asked She, as the Horizon Filled Cornfields past. "This!" I Seed, she will be a shock of Savesseness of open landscape. She has never seen this open space in her life-what about 5 minutes from her house to walk about 5 minutes? What is the A town from A town. Cornfields, her and my shared back visors Ubiquity, what is the largest rural Ohio growth, and at that moment, she finally came from where they came from who I knew I was. Down A Two-Lane Country Road, filled with water, drive your will Reach A quarry. However, in the past it is a small and medium-sized development I live. Most houses are composed of bricks and plaster. At least A had at least A, everyone helped his own acres in the land with pride to maintain. Between spring, planting flowers are rich along with all the seasons in the Midwest tree. Driveway is full of Gristene A good, afternoon, and the highest end Mercedes-Benz luxury car. Migray Continuously along the road towards the stucco home, my Korean neighbors are always outside and are always out. A little bit tend to spend the whole day of his lawn cutting, and you can listen to Ham Over of his lawn mower. Everyone in the neighborhood gets laughing outside, but he is always a real, wonderful person with a unique history. He has been old and his wit, he lost some of the elderly. His past himself blends with the grass with what kind of doctor and the grass, his John Deer Zero turns on the lawn mower. Finally, you want to reach my home. Inside Yard, goose is rich and chased by our terrier. Behind, there is a small flow to the quarry and small flow. Here you can listen to the Ushigael, Stream, and the nearby farm sometimes "Take". Handmade wooden bridge overtime oasis is filled with selfish wood, herbs, and wildflowers. Here I spent most of my childhood. (Mainly follows them) From the building of the building to the "hunting" animal, it is always available for friendship, and there is something like a kid in the neighborhood. There is no more beautiful things that can be brobbed in winter in my little town. EEPTY Converts the A sea from the A sea into green to the wilderness. Stored vivid pink, purple, orange flowers change to skeletons of bark bars. When blessed with snowfall, winter Wonderland will be displayed overnight. Snowman is lined with a snow angel sister in the backyard. Frequently as a kid and the winter and snowballs my sister and my sister and me Fougty was our weapon of the choice. We want to build a fort on our weapons like a large Igloo, with a regular branch, as in Arsenal. WE, nothing else a lot A This time is full play in our own Little Wonderland. We were a little kid in the world.