I live in a typical suburban area of ​​Tennessee's Ao South Town. We are a quiet residential area than the city, but it gets more traffic than the bits that you want to give other things, so it's a concatenated street with two national expressways is. Moving too many people and I live in the surroundings, so I got used to most people. It is not a garden work and most parts of everyday household and selfish people. Winter on our side, WE Soli Down Hill A. We live in our city's front corner, so we live in our city's front corner house and they are familiar with the car. We see a strange car Whyever, we tend to take notes. Some neighbors walk their dogs and walk for exercise or only. Children play everything with their bikes that you expect it. We work at our house, so we are home A lot. Our four, me with my wife, and two daughters AGES Seven Eleven and Forteen. So I think everyone says that everyone is used in the US. We also get play out of the rain sometimes. Our Backdec and Barbecue and All from Our Back Deck and Barbecue and All from All GRILL. It always comes to grass around here, but always thinks somebody, but if you can listen to the Matsuri Mower from March through October, the grass stops at the end . TREES's NeighbordoHod AS IT HAVE A LOT originally A lottery, SHADE is a lot, but leaf the Call of the Call of the There's Always A Lot WE. So, let's collect the way and burn the leaves on an annual basis. Like the scent of burn the leaves, for that, it is a wonderful sign that the case has arrived. Recently, we felt as long as it is long, so many winters were not Beeen to talk. Our garage is a rare door behind our house, our house UNness Someone's Knox We are rarely used by the front door. I have a garage door opening when I worked with my truck and other projects at the same time as tuned in my neighborhood, and I have a garage door opening. It is quite quiet around holidays. Thanksgiving will visit the neighborhood family from outside the town, and look at some of the people, and the parked extra car is held everywhere this year. This is the same for Mother's Day and Christmas and other holidays. All all, I like to live here. If it is not passed, it will be perfect.