I live in a small Midwinishi town just outside the suburbs of major cities. My neighborhood on the east side of the town was able to explain the neighborhood as the most economically blessed area of ​​the town. Property value is that low residential is owned by rental or low-income person. But that is not attractive or uncomfortable. My neighbors generally smile and smile and say that those who say hello are walking. The crime rate is slightly higher than the other parts of the town and still generally low. Several violent crimes have been conducted in the past 10 years in several blocks of my home, including a few gunshots at least one murder. The neighbors next to us died his son with fire outside the regional bar last year. Luckily, our family has not been directly affected by the impact of crimes except that the item disappears from our porch when we forgot to put in. Generally, the town I lived has deepened the influence of "opioid epioid epidemand" that influenced many regions of the United States. Many lives have been lost for over-intake of fentanyl. Fortunately, there are many resources to fight this epidemic, including some addiction rehabilitation center and Narcan Training Sessions for people and friends who are affected by addiction. Despite the issues of paper, this town has many positive attributes. My son's elementary school has excellent staff from the principal to the teacher and the support staff. Despite having special needs, it does not face the bullying so far for the school absolutely positive atmosphere, and he loves it there. We have a plan Active PTO throughout the year to promote family involvement and education progress. Because more than 20% of our town population live under the poverty level, elementary school offers free breakfast and lunch for all students. Because the lunch is impossible, children and families are treated as "less" and the expenses for school charges, supply, and field trip are very reasonable. The city cart and staff have improved the appearance of our town, including an emergency road, landscaping, and repair city park. Unfortunately, most of the dissertation improvement is located at the center of the town and all of the shopping areas, and was done on the waist side that most traffic passes. The east side I live tends to be ignored, which is a competition point for my neighbors. Overall, I live in this town. People are generally friendly and school is great, there is enough shopping options (small and medium-sized businesses and larger retail stores) to meet my family needs, and our homes may be much worth However, it is comfortable and sufficient. Our family lived here for over 16 years, and we can not imagine that we live in other places.