My neighbor is composed of double duplexes on CUL-DE-SAC. As they look like an individual house, they are definitely placed and spaced apart. The only difference is yellow painted with a white porch and a green metal roof. Most people all are all friends with each other. Neighbor children do not chat in the evening and chit chat while flying toys, sidewalk chalks and kites. This modern whole is very refreshing in the mechanical / computer filled world. It's like going back in time. We are surrounded by areas and trees enhanced by blue sky and white speech bubble. Is the only collapse? This season, we have experienced tornado warning, and for the first time, we had to head to shelter because we heard the actual Tornado Sirens last night. Certainly, you would have found me with my little dog with my wallet and some pillows. My big dog is nervous and wondering about urgent circle stance, regardless of the bathroom. It is quiet except for the sound of a large flood that fell to all Bouts on the ground. After a storm, the road literally steam steam from changes in temperature. I went to 92 to 75 in a few minutes. When it was hit in a hot pavement, the hail was immediately dissolved. As I examined in the clear sky, the sun came out and it started to rain. A double rainbow was attached. I jumped into my house and grabbed my camera. I took a picture immediately and shot to share with my Facebook friend and my family. They were revering like reverence, like a reverence, and when they were thunderstorms, the street became quieter in another time before they came from where they were. Then the usual business is what kind of business, mom and children, and children outside as dinner. This gal recently moved from NH to NC. I will talk about the southern accent and worship the accent of the southern people. There are two bedrooms and two Bath Apartments like everyone. All houses look out the same way, but all apartments are not inside inside. Some are actually quite small. It does not make sense. I love walking along the largest field where I live in a pond that is not created for swimming. I can hear the huge bull log that you sing him to sing his song in the lake deer and morning. It is a great place to live for 40 minutes outside the city of Charlotte. Every morning, a crazy chicken sound is welcome from surrounding farms. It is rather like living in a small community village. We have a donkey at a nearby farm that can listen to the blare in the evening to notify us that he is located. I am able to find this jewel of the neighborhood.