My neighborhood is full of culture. It is surrounded by a building with a historical meaning and is set at A Hill. Old Live Theater A 7 Story Apartment's Building Rights I Live, and A Block Downsa Hill, ON to warm the summer night to warm the summer night It is a small arcade bar. YOU is waiting for people LINE. Oton Times to get on a few blocks, July July Especialy on the weekend is the nearest city park. Let's consider part of the town where Big IT is sitting pretty. Siege The Park is a tall staircase on the wall and is concrete. During a cold winter, homeless people are a sidewalk and a row and set their tent up along a wide step. It doesn't mean that many snowings are rationic and intense down, and the Mid winter is often tend to keep it difficult to maintain difficult warm. Jungle Town Rather than the out-of-out center, keep them together to keep them together to keep them. Because they are within the distance between rational walking and transit, they are only a family center for cans and shower miles. Roll down for oceans Hills out works and tall proud buildings through change level, architecture, architecture. What is my love for my neighborhood, people are their own culture. Your lake, Hirimoup if you're the most visible neighborhood of gangster for the west coast. If you still make it a beautiful city, I will hear the story after the federal government staff, and after thirty years after the sweep deal. People should not forget them. The story is passed from generation to generation from generation to STILL, from generation to generation. It is still considered one of the Roucher 'hood' throughout the city, but people work hard is to keep clean up. They still care about their blocks about what happens in their city. If you are white, you say you should not walk after dark hill. Really, I believe this warning is reminiscent of the old days, and it believes that it has an acidity of society conditioning. Perhaps it is a completely "White Girl" to pass a Just Dark enough to pass a completely "White Girl", and the Hilltop is always one with me, always my country reminder. Recognize. · Pot Ut Piamel A Cultural Racial discrimination, culture conditioning, and assumptions, and in A city, it is created with ignorance and fear. Private one-thing: how far away I roaming is home. Walking these streets at night I feel alive, who has a meeting people, and more quickly, Nefariously Lob Providing a jacket more than me. It is coin-laundry owned when I have no call to my phone in charge, but I am owned by Cihon Landie, but only a few minutes later. It is "The soil who works is a fewbors, Look to Me, Most of the night is not visible to gray boring, believe that it is a concrete store against yourself, Hand Mail A $ 5's, I will notify me of M Beautiful and Valuable.