I live in the rural American and specifications small town Michigan. Where do you go from farmland to a small tourist city? Norvig City Mall, No Wolmart, Target, or Apple Bee. You need to drive so that you will go to get anywhere. Nevertheless, I live in water surrounded by water and live in one of the most beautiful places in the world. My "city" is surrounded by water. Beautiful Michigan lake on one side, Lake Sharl Bois. You are a beach to dip. You can find your toes around me everywhere, reflect the ideas of the small town. Housing is not stacked together. They are not a cookie cutter house that was similarly built. They are old homes, some of them, and some of them have been remodeled with old beaming. Most housekeepers. The lake can be from all ground rooms. Many houses of old aluminum siding holding neighborhood. We can imagine all colored houses in its surround My house block. Most of the house sharing yard. Trampoline and playsets and yards. Several people have a garden, and fence for their animals. Housing is similar to Central America. Hard Working People Who Works A Life and Create Eithher Procurement Family or Have Family. Run any up and downster stream on day Days give you a child of Lake Wil. You want to walk with dogs, cycling and roller blades. The neighbor knows the neighbors, and you can recognize who is not belonging to anyone. You are pleasant to see someone from someone or wave grille or even if you are walking from the bottom of a few blocks. The lawn is keeping in a decent condition. No one has a leaf stacked from the case of cases. Greengrass is kept and lower control. Plants and bushs with if people in their yards are kept down and held down. It is not a beautiful neighborhood that it is thought to be a drive, but the other is your drive, and this TOOLD can notify it in a good place for raising the A family I think. It is peaceful and safe, quiet. While looking at only the average value, it is exceptional that PRESPANSAT's people want to make the world in a safe place to land at the end of the day. There are county-gun security officers and prisons. The Ministry of Health is next to it. City Recycling Center is just sitting down the downs and from the city to neighbors and residents use the services they offer. We have a field of neighborhood baseball and softball fields where you can listen to the announcer and call the player's name. Our small town airport is continuing. You can play outside or take off and take off and take off a small engine airplane cat photo archive. You can walk to get ice cream from a local ice cream location, and you can downtown from our neighborhood of Homes if you are actually there. Only 8 blocks away their bikes in the can Ride Park, which is far away. It is a really great place to live.