Well, I think that has been here for 10 years, I guess I can share my know. First of all, I'm pretty sad I came in first in my neighborhood. I came from Riverdale in Stockbridge, and I lie, going to cry I am not, Cape to I missed them, I love them .. However, the movement because we are better, my mom and dad, we were now recruited the best for me and my sister, moved to our new neighborhood, housing considered "non-ghetto", better than a high school, for what all Location. Throughout the year, I Got used to it, some too of new friends in school, I made some new enemy. I never really not only really Mr. Glenn and his children, except for the right next to both A bit, in the United States for Dennis, did you hear my neighbors throughout the year. They are, I have been fun people to be able to take into account the family like most some point, and I really do not thank them. I, mom, dad, but fun and sister crab Glenn wedding (they GATT re-married) it is really fun, when what was done was also to say the least, I am please remember, and , something, as I will build my, I, my future wife the life that gives a wealth of positive is a queen someday. Mr. Glenn's wife, Mr. Vedas, and to her feet, when I took it threw off The White Little strap, I catch it! I do not have to catch the flowers in the sad thing! AWAY WE ALL DANCED THE NIGHT is, and I really enjoyed having one of the A GOOD TIME WITH MARSHARII, daughters. I lake not have since but her. I · Hope she is large, has moved to better things. The A GPS is the neighborhood itself have now, I can take a lot of time in order to explore it, but, just as A maze. I have went so far, and, but when I hang out with my friends Kason and Curtis. It is used to play all the a lot of video games, just we can enjoy life to the fullest as much as possible. Sometimes I naturally go to the park, which heal enjoyed my soul. It gives a sense of tranquility and peace Thesay date to me. I, So I bring some of the stick, which I bought from Home Depot, just practice my balance, and bring my wooden sword wooden sword IF I Masu cans,. Although I love to have fun I enjoy the Do basketball and tennis court I do not play tennis or basketball in a long time, IOVER case you want it it is to choose a backup, it gives another go thing is still good to have a, you may do so. They are Mr. Graves is grown in the United States of hard worked ... my dad is my best friend maximum of tennis and I, we always have to have A want a great time! However, we had a always fun time. I Times my lot, this has had a fun time in the neighborhood, and there is a story that has been enhanced, however, paper I have nothing really stuck out, and I'm the best, still come I There are believe that it is not!