My neighborhood is interesting. It is a house, most of a single family is that most of the houses are so meaning that the STAINT beabs are included, and two people in the split. My home has a small garden and a small road to the left of the house. Also, most of the other things are not at A hour to memorize you, so we have lived in the outskirts outside of Americanandream. This dream appeared to hug the people of this country at once, but now I will pull it away. However, in my neighborhood, many of them are still alive, if the dream is still alive, we visited by those who visit that, and the rest, we still hold on it doing. Poupleless Feel As Optomistic AS Little Yard, I'm not going to be used for them, but that Ther still still and two driving ways all driveways, what is the week IF the World · Still Youth Play Whole of their existence. A public school that has been here for a quy 90 years, stainless steel is a stirring up nostalgic with the young people of the candy today. The church is almost empty and is distant from a few, but the basketball court stainless steel is full. Everything in Holmes looks different, but I feel the same way. There is a big supermarket called the only Arab family in the neighborhood and is a large YEMNI family, owned super "A". Most of the residents are African Americans. The street is large and the children usually stop to allow the car to allow the football, play football. Most of my neighbors have, most of them were here for generations, everyone can tell the past story that everyone knows. There is a karate school, but the Hollywood stopped, but when making the best kid work, the children are the best kid, so I want to be a pharmacy now, BCAUSE all good, or SO I Make sure I heard. A small cinema who plays an old movie at a discounted price is just stored from the crowd with a young man DISDANE for that lacquer of the release title, but the elders prefer, it is a small price for the night payment There is no kids for the person course. There is a single expressway that passes Mower. The entrance is in our town. The petition is acquired and has once for exit for our town. The young man refuses to be an IT support. It seems that he is a highway with the ruins of our town and finally to say the city council to refuse the request. They are new high schools in A building, and we are trying to decide A mascot for our town. I think that A Country accent and A log cabin in A Cyborg should be considered to talk about the best representation of My Town.