I am near the university I attend nearby and I live there. There is a building of most apartments, but there is a restaurant or bar that you enjoy. Just one of the only renamed bars, and that are not actually the worst service quality and drinks. Most people are good. They are children at university. As the apartment houses are not very expensive, they are low in income. There are many children nearby because there is elementary school within walking distance of my apartment. I do not know my neighbor, but I do not want to actually do it. Since they suck many weeds, the management of my buildings passed an airfraid unit from their doors, and I found that my boyfriend and I was very interesting. It is almost insulting. Buildings around me are usually older old but they may have renovated the interior. There is a new new apartment of a little brand under the city, but I do not like their baiter I know that the construction done on them was not particularly good. They are built cheaply, but the rent is expensive, they think it is a scammer's search investigator near the campus, and their buildings can be managed. There is a restaurant about 5 minutes from where I live, and we offer food only on paper plates. Then it is the gas station where I have heard. However, thanks to the money from the city, last summer roads are a great big sidewalk, the grass on the central body, a lot of roads, and the region is small now. However, the building of the apartment where I live is covered with a tuf. They cut some of them and have very few stamps, but there are more than a lot of wood I live. It is a set of wooden lines, and other apartments behind my apartment. I live at 42 locations, but it is 43rd street soon and it is not good. The sidewalk is really worse, and it looks like a barbara, and most buildings it is shabby. There are many trees on this street, but it is probably hiding how the building looks like. Most crimes in my region were hinted at the apartment complex, but then I can not blame them. There is an apartment that crosses the street from me, and it has many crimes and quite transient population. But I think I like the place where I live. I have a margin to buy it, and there are many convenient amenities nearby. I like to have two bus stops, especially within the distance between distances within walking distance.