When asked to explain my neighborhood, I am convinced that my answer is somewhat unique. Other reactions are a home owner with almost no responses in their personal life, but my situation is a different bit of A TAD. I think that live in my dormitory is that my community is my community, think that it is a university campus for I stay I, and people. So, let's think about the surrounding campus that my neighborhood and ALBIT are less than a. Despite this specificity, about A neighborhood, more conventional ideas and some of my neighborhood stocks. Similarly, you have any conventional neighborhood, neighborhood I staying, housing, people, stores and parks. Let's start by discussing "House", including my neighborhood. Before I start exploring houses in my neighborhood, IT best to clarify the kind of house that can be found in my neighborhood. There are three types of houses in my immediate, apartment, actual house, and dorm residence. First of all, the apartment usually exists between 2-4 people in any room, and it is a 4-6 room for each floor. The most common building can be entered House 2 floors, day average, Therape 20, or each building, so about people's life. Second, it is a real house that can be used for the rent to the school to the school. Generally speaking, graduates that have a usual grade are 2-4 bedroom set up of their life. They are the only A-handling of the dissertation of the spread of houses, as they are efficient less. Finally, there are 100 typical dormitory rooms of home students. With the exception of some exceptions, the paper is the two shared A-Room, and it is the most common type of home in my neighborhood. Targeting housing and we will move to people. My school diversity and pride itself are reflected in my neighbor's makeup. People from all cultures and ages have lived around me. NOWER student staying at home's housing in the house's prosta live residential residential residential residential residential residential residential stay and staying around. As it is simply the best to move to a store or park in my neighborhood, the people of this neighborhood can not juste just talking about them. My school is really a dedicated neighborhood neighborhood, so it offers excessive and single fields. Stores are Owold dining A mix and clothes school unique brands and grocery stores. You can find what you need, such as searches, you can find within my neighborhood boundaries! Also, the park in my neighborhood is a playground for all the diverse people around me, cleaning by all the members of my neighbor, and are kept freedom of crime!