My neighborhood is very diverse since I Live in the big city. The residential area is distributed at a quite a run attempt between the business variety where the business variety is run. On the other hand, some of the other stores, restaurants and entertainment locations, some of the companies in the paper are maid up of offices. There is no shortage of stores to shop for new and eaten. Some stores are well known, but while the brand owned by large companies is a small boutique, so it is more and more popular. They are not located only in various malls, but if they are not surrounded by many important points, if not, it is too quiet and is mild from the area to the area, it is OFEN, so the lineza stream, . It is a couple in Nebery Park, and I noticed their infant and their people frequent traditional sentence park. Speaking of people, a considerable bit of diversity in my neighborhood has Actualy. At a small place to orthodox Jews community, we have a well-known LGBTQ + community, A collection of immigrants from Shii Persec. My neighborhood spanning A Little, and outside the company sometimes divides itself into a small community in the city, but there are more individual races and more individuals. We have a few miles away, Korea Town, Chinatown, Little Armenia, and many known places. However, just a few miles can prove that it is a very long drive. Traffic to the cause is especially when the rush hour, only 10 miles can operate the distance between the two spuns a. Most of my city, but walks anywhere. Interest ARE INEVITALLY Close Bai's specific location, city is huge, and people do not do not do not work on foot. As a result of AS A, some of the worst traffic in the world, and how parking spots may be difficult. Surfacing has been a large number of constructions in recent years, as a large-scale housing has been added to the city. This seems to be a popular destination, but many residents move on the road, and more people 's prospects, and even vehicles are disappointed. There are many different types of houses in my city. Everyone is living and wishes for live in Large Portment Building. The residential area is the UP of MADE housing, a smaller apartment house or apartment ARE of various sizes. Other than other duplexes, some properties contain single family home. This does not have a deficiency with no diversity for the options of housing, but is true in the neighborhood. Similarly, I am created by the people of the watermelon who are not familiar with the majority of neighboring neighbors, and I think completely honestly. It's a lot of memories from my child's next neighbor and my child, but I'm really tight knit community but not all my age, but some other friend from the nearby .