The other great product I will analyze is the Google Nexus 6 phone which launched in November of 2014. The demand for this product like previous versions was very high and continues to be to this day. This phone has been sold out many times during the last five months which brings in another problem of the demand exceeding the supply. This product is not meant to be exclusive like Google Glass, so not having the supply to keep up with demand has only hurt the sales of this product. As a company Google was still able to report $18.1 billion of revenue, but the company needs to realize that number could be even higher if the demand was met for this product. This is a good problem to have to a point, having the consumer overwhelmingly wanting your product is a great thing. Google also need to focus on that demand and align their supply so there is no loss of consumers to the competition. This has also an issue with the Nexus 5 so it is evident that Google needs to focus on better projections for demand, so the supply on hand will be able to keep up. Making sure the supply and demand are the same will ensure a equilibrium in the market, which is optimal for any product or company. 
Google should now analyze the price elasticity for Google Glass and look for ways to improve and this graph is again a great resource to use. Price elasticity is defined as “Price elasticity (sometimes known as price elasticity of demand, or PED) measures how demand for a product or service changes when the price charged is changed”. When Google Glass was first introduced in 2012 there was no competition for this new technology. When a product is one of a kind usually the price is inelastic because the price is set by this one product. The consumer does not have the opportunity to choose a lesser price or higher price product instead of Google Glass. They could decide to not purchase the product at all due to it being more of a luxury item which can also effect the elasticity of the price. At this point with other competitions arriving for sale Google needs to reevaluate the price point for this product to keep demand up. With these new products like Samsung’s Gear Glass coming to the market with a reported lower price than Google Glass' price point of $1,500, consumers could potentially move towards a lesser price point. When this product comes to market and depending on the price point it will have the effect of making the pricing more elastic. Another factor to consider is how the consumer views this item, at this price point and its uses its considered a luxury not a necessity. As mentioned before educating the consumer on the uses to make it more of a need, not a want will be key in making more people feeling that Google Glass is a necessity to their everyday lives. 
