Autonomous vehicles are an exciting technology.  They are slowly being incorporated in the vehicles we drive today.  Certain aspects of the technology being incorporated into our current vehicles such as driver assist technologies and adaptive cruise control.  Autonomous cars use several different kinds of technology, including GPS, sensors and cameras to preform their desired task.  This technology will have a major impact on many types of people, but I feel the visually impaired community could really benefit over time.
Technology and human life is intertwined; we use technology constantly and have become quite dependent.  Humans needs and demand for different technologies continue to rise.  Technology has made greatly improved the way we travel, from the use of horse drawn chariots and carriages to today's many types of vehicles.  Technology has an effect on many aspects of our lives; and is growing very rapidly.  The next big innovation is Autonomous Cars, and they are slowly being incorporated into the vehicles we drive today.  Automobiles have given people freedom to travel farther than they were able to before.  Autonomous Cars will give the visually impaired and disabled communities to travel independently.
Since autonomous cars are a newer technology and not currently available for for mass consumers it is yet to be decided if it will be fully accepted by users.  People will decide if the technology is acceptable to use and if so it will be incorporated into daily life or discarded.
Initially (Google's) autonomous vehicles where to have a steering wheel and pedals Drive to the highway and engage the the autonomous system, and the driver would reengage if something were to go wrong That concept was discarded after long term testing People became to dependent and lazy on the technology People can become to reliant on technology Ultimately all people will become passengers
Since this technology is still being developed there isn't a clear picture of how it will shaped our interactions.
Make users more dependent on technology, and more lazy When this takes off and eventually will spread to commercial uses, making truck and deliver driver jobs obsolete change traffic, people's relationships with cars and lessen people's interactions
The decrease of fatal car accidents will significantly lower the amount of donor organs.
Technology meant to advance and change our lives can also change our identity and/ or control us.  Technology tracks our habits, our location along with other data to understand us.  Technology creates another category of social issues.
Technology replacing humans and society as a whole losing the abilities and our identity all together.
Technology and automation has been replacing humans in many aspects including jobs, and everyday tasks. As technology becomes more sophisticated, humans become less and less needed.
This issue is about the identity humans have created for themselves and the skills attained. It further the decision being made weather to embrace technology in this way or shunning it away.
