A consumer walks into a store looking to purchase the newest and greatest phone or tablet and is presented with a decision. Should they purchase this brand or that brand, how much money can the afford to spend, or maybe if they should even buy it at all. These decision we make everyday all day long, not only have an impact on us, but all of the people and companies around us. Microeconomics is defined as “The division of economics concerned with the study of individual decision-making units within an economy: a consumer, firm, or industry. Unlike macroeconomics, it looks at how individual markets work and how individual producers and consumers make their choices and with what consequences”.  In this paper I will focus on analyzing all the available information to give Google what it needs to be better informed about how price elasticity, demand, and other aspects of microeconomics can help them sustain their success in the future.
	I will start by looking at the history of this great company because sometimes looking back will help us see more clearly in the future. Google was started in 1997 by Larry Page and Sergey Brin trying to solve the problem of organizing the infinite amount of information available on the internet. In 1998 the company launched a newsletter to inform its customers about information surrounding the company which has since been replace with other methods. June of 1999 the companies announced 25 million dollars in investments from two different investors. Starting in September of 2000 the company started offering services in Chinese, Japanese and Korean bringing the total number of languages to 15. The Google Search Appliance was released in 2002 which allows companies to search their own documents. Gmail has become the choice for many people for their email needs and was launched by the company in 2004. For myself personally and I'm sure for millions of other people Google maps has become the only source for my navigation needs. Google maps was first offered in mobile devices in April 2005. In more recent news we have witnessed the success of the first phone released by Google in 2010 labeled the Nexus. In 2012 the revolutionary Google Glass was introduced and recently revealed the second generation coming soon. This is just a short list of accomplishments this great company has had over the years and each one of these relates to microeconomics. Every decision made had an impact on the world around us and the customers that it served. From Google maps to Gmail to Google Books, and Google Nexus the products define not only the company but the market for the services which are influenced by the concepts of microeconomics. For example when we look at the upcoming release of Google glass (2nd generation) Google should focus on elasticity of the demand and price to try to reach a equilibrium.  Every step had an impact on the future and the success or failure so gaining this information is key to a better outcome.
