Google as a company has many innovative products, and this paper will focus on a couple of them to take a closer look at the supply and demand conditions. The first product I would love to shine a light on is Google Glass. We just recently saw the announcement that the first generation of Google Glass will be discontinued and a new version would be on the way soon. This is a great time to review what was successful with the first model and work to improve the outcome for the new launch. Looking back Google sought to create demand before the product was even released to the market place. The company required users to register on Twitter and Google+, then they had to tell everyone on these communities what it would mean to have a pair of Google Glass. Lastly they then had to pay the cost of $1,500 to become one of the “glass explorers” which is the name given to individuals chosen to be a tester. “Ten thousand or more Google Glass units are now shipping to beta testers and winners of the If I Had Glass contest -- for a $1,500 price tag”. The power of social media was utilized and was successful at getting people to be excited and emotionally attached to the product without even being able to buy the glasses yet. With this technique Google had all the demand it needed and released thousands of units, which in turn created the supply. The demand will exceed the supply because there were over 145,000 #IfIHadGlass which was the tracker for potential “explorers”. “There were over 145K mentions of the #ifIhadGlass hashtag (which is how Google tracks their potential explorers)”.   Taking a look at the projection for next 5 years in the graph below released by BI Intelligence we can definitely see a great amount of growth coming for this great product. We can see that the projection skyrockets after 2016 so we should try and focus on increasing the sales in the next couple of years, so all years of the projection increases. Business Insider published an article on the potential growth of Google Glass over the coming years and this is what they had to say;  “We at BI Intelligence expect unit sales of Glass to to climb sharply in the years after its official launch, to 21 million units in annual sales by year-end 2018. At $500 per unit, this equates to a $10.5 billion annual market opportunity”. The demand seems to be high and the supply is following this trend, but the company can do better by thinking about price to make it more available to more consumers. Another aspect to look at would be the education to the consumer of how Google Glass can be utilized in our everyday lives to improve their current situation. I will dive more into this in my recommendation section of this paper along with other ideas all focused on improvement. 
