	Account management starts right from the beginning when first setting up the network. The system should only have one administrator along with user accounts on a needed bases. There should be no guest account enable on these devices, which is not the case on workstation0001. Once the appropriate users have been established strong and unique passwords should be utilized at all times. The next step will be having these passwords expire after a particular amount of time for example thirty days. If remote access is needed this should be accomplished through a virtual private network. The VPN will encrypt information being sent to help eliminate this information being captured and deciphered. Another good practice is to allow allow certain access to files and applications when connecting remotely. Each user should only have share permission for application and files needed for their normal tasks. Leaving extra access open leaves unnecessary exposure for threats to take advantage of. Hackers and threats are always looking for a way in, putting as many locked doors in their way as possible will be essential. The current configuration leaves holes that can be exploited to access a workstation or other device and then once in it will be able to travel throughout the network. 
	As mentioned this network has a lot of areas that need to be addressed and the tools used have helped shed a brighter light on the issues. Windows Firewall is disables along with no antivirus being used on either one of the workstations. There is also no malware detection and deletion software being used along with a lot of windows security updates missing. If someone using the network clicks on a malicious link in their email or visits a website they shouldn’t there is not enough protection in place to prevent a virus or Trojan from entering the system. Imagine all of these programs as roadblocks along the information road ensuring only permitted data is being allowed in. If the system did become infected there are no tools to eliminate these threats. The importance of detecting and erasing these diseases as fast as possible is paramount. 
	As mentioned previously having an anti-malware solution is important and should be another layer in the overall security plan. According to an article written on malwarebytes.org “Increases in the severity of malware attacks, vulnerabilities in networks and software applications, and uninformed users raise the stakes of the cyber security game. So now more than ever, businesses need to double down on security and layer up”(Zamora, 2015). This software should be active on the entire network along on each workstation. Anti-malware protects ageist new targets along with having the ability to clean up infections. Along with what has been mentioned it also detects undesirable software that might pose a threats to a user and potentially the network. An example would a PUP(potentially unwanted programs) which could contain adware or seek to install toolbars on one of the workstations. These threats can all be mitigated by using a anti-malware software across the entire network. 
