A weak spot or vulnerability, in the network could potentially be exploited by a security threat. ABC Manufacturing needs to identify these security threats and eliminate them as soon as possible. This report will examine both workstations 0001 and 0002 along with the Smoothwall router to uncover week points. After reviewing and analyzing these finding, solutions and methods will be presented for the company to enact.
	There  are many useful tools that can be utilized to gain knowledge about the network and areas that needs improvement. This first tool used for ABC manufacturing is a vulnerability report on both of the workstations. A vulnerability report is a useful tool for identifying hidden network and host weak areas that need attention. This tool discovers security vulnerabilities in a system and prioritize the potential threats in level of importance; starting with the most serious threat first. Along with the list it will also show potential ways to combat or eliminate the most serious threats.  The results of the vulnerability report can be invaluable but only if the results are weighed in relationship to the current security infrastructure and business. Keeping the business risk in mind will allow ABC manufacturing to strengthen the overall security and make the most of their security budget. This report finds the causes for each individual vulnerability; then applies physical, technical and operational controls to minimize and mitigate the impact to the enterprise.
The methodology used throughout this process will focus on the network as a hole, but also on individual equipment and procedures. At first a full review of the network will be created along with using tools to gain the full picture. The scope will be in depth because these tools have not been fully leverage in the past, an aggressive approach will be taken. An article on CIO states about vulnerability reports “Vulnerability scanning is a must for medium-size to enterprise environments, considering the large number of network segments, routers, firewalls, servers and other business devices in use. The attack surface is simply too spacious (and inviting to malicious attackers) not to scan regularly”(Lindros, 2014). The network is only going to be as strong as its weakest link, so insuring all parts are protected is important. Tools like the ones already mentioned will be used along with scans looking for threats already on the system like viruses and malware. Lastly I will mimic a threats and try to gain access to the network. An active and through approach needs to be in place from the beginning and continue every day.
