Google is a global company with many innovative products and leads in most of the markets, but there are always improvements that can be sought. The first recommendation I would make would be to make consumers aware of how Google can be used to improve their everyday life. Investing in a marketing campaign to educate how explorers are using the product to achieve existing tasks and to achieve new ones. Google can utilize some of their revenue to pay for this expense. It can also use the Google brand and its power in the search engine field to get the word out about the campaign. Another aspect to consider since the barrier of entry is high would be the price point for Google Glass. The price elasticity might change in the coming years with more competitors emerging in the market. Google should focus on decreasing the cost of production to remain competitive. In regards to the Nexus 6 a lot of press has been given to the price of the phone increasing. “At $649, the Nexus 6 is almost twice as expensive -- a full $300 more than its predecessor, the Nexus 5.” Educating the consumer on why this phone is worth the additional cost will be important. With the brand power some consumers will automatically purchase the new product. At this price point the phone will be competing for market share with other phones like Apple's I phone, so consumers will have other options. Increasing customer awareness of the differences between Google's phone and competitors should influence more consumers to choose the Nexus. With any product decreasing the overall cost of production is important and would also apply to The Nexus 6. Another point to focus on is using the power of Google search to gain more share for other products in emerging markets. In these markets Google should add more sponsored search results for their products. An example would be when someone searches for a camera, a result would come up for Google Glass. In this result it would show that Google Glass can work as a camera among many other functions. This should help drive customers looking to purchase a new camera to instead purchase the Google Glass for their picture taking needs. Lastly making sure the management of these ventures is handled in the best way possible is very important. With Google Glass the head of this division said recently "We made one really great decision, and one not so great." Making sure to focus on whats important, like the product development, price elasticity, demand among others, instead of such things as a publicity stunt will be key. With all of these recommendation in mind Google should continue to focus on Cost of production and Consumer education along with my other thoughts mentioned above which in turn should pave the way to continued increased profits.
