As mentioned previously in this paper, Google search engine still remains the top performer in the market. “Google Market Share: 67 Percent On PC, 83 Percent In Mobile.” We can see from the graph Google holds the majority of the market over its competitors. We need to also look at the market share for Google Glass and Nexus 6. Both of these products are still very new so the figures are not out yet for either product but we can still make some reasonable conclusions again in this category. Google Glass was a largely a monopoly in its category due to it being a one of a kind product at launch. For This reason we can assume the market share at that time was high. Since more and more competitors are coming to market and some having lower price points the market share will decrease to compensate. Google Nexus runs Android, which is the operating system created by Google which is also used on other manufacturer’s products. We can gather information about Android to analyze the market share Google has as a whole in the mobile phone market. 
“This year proved a huge milestone for Google’s Android mobile operating system (OS), which reached 84.6% market share in Q2 of 2014, more than doubling its market share in just 3 years, up from 36% in 2011.” Looking at the information available the Google mobile market has increased significantly and holds a overwhelming majority in this market. 
Google offers different products in different markets, and each one will have different barriers to entry for a new company. Business dictionary in part defines barriers to entry as “Economic, procedural, regulatory, or technological factors that obstruct or restrict entry of new firms into an industry or market.” Google is largely a technical company so we can look at factors that would effect a company trying to emerge in the technology market. The two biggest factors to consider would be the financial and also the technological aspects. In the majority of the markets Google is present in there are millions and in some cases billions of dollars at stake. A new company would need a good amount of money to even try to compete. There is also a lot of research and development that goes into every product along with patented technology. An average person or even most start up companies would not have the funds and the technology to produce the same products that Google is able to. With this in mind most markets will have a high barrier of entry for anyone looking to emerge. 
There are some products Google produces that are one of a kind but most markets are highly competitive. One look at the cell phone market we can see there is a lot of competition throughout all price points. It's a very competitive market with a handful of big companies fighting to be number one and win consumers over. There is one definite advantage the Google Brand can have a huge influence in the market. In 2013 Forbes published an article about Google and Apple being the world's best brands which says a lot. “Apple rose from the #2 spot to #1, edging out Coca-Cola, which has held the top spot for 13 consecutive years. Google rose two places to #2.” Google has surpassed companies like Coca-Cola and McDonald’s which proves Google potential influence in any market it occupies. Any current competitor or new comer would need to not only offer a product that is comparable, but also compete with the power of the Google brand. 
