A valued employee is returning to work after an extended leave of absence with physical disabilities along with sight issues. As the human factors investigator for this hospital I will compose this paper to make recommendations to accommodate this employee. Each recommendation will provide reasoning to support the implementation. Technology, Work Environment, and training/support recommendations will be presented to offer a seamless transition back to work. 
When this employee returns to work technology can become a friend or a hindrance depending on the accommodations. The employee should not cater themselves to technology, but technology should cater to the user. As published on Proquest.com “Then appeared ergonomics, preaching a new principle of, adjusting machine to man.”  The employee still has full use of her right side and should be able to use a mouse freely to manipulate actions on the computer. The technology recommendations will focus more on the sight issues that this employee will face everyday when preforming her duties. Software should be installed that will enlarge the screen and provide a larger pointer to help locate where the employee is on the screen. The ZoomText soft ware would be a good choice because it will allow the user to magnify the screen up to 36x. Having this ability will  allow the user to see all the text displayed more clearly. “ZoomText is the world’s leading magnification and screen reading software for the visually impaired and helps countless individuals across the globe stay employed and in touch with the world.” This software can range between $399.99 and $599.99 depending on the version needed.  This addition will help cater to the sight issues by making all objects larger while also providing a “bullseye” so the employee does not have issues finding the data entry fields. Since this software will enlarge everything the next recommendation would be to add duel monitors to the work stations to allow for greater area for the enlarge setup. Utilizing just one monitor will only provide a small amount of space for the new enlarged text, which in turn could make the employee move around the screen a lot. Having duel monitors provides the needed real estate to accommodate the enlarged text and format. These improvements will provide the environment for technology tom work for the employee not against her. 
The work environment should not only include the employees work station, but also the entire building and route this employee will take everyday. This employee might use a wheelchair or other device to move around, so the path will need to be clear of obstacles. This can be accomplished by doing a “mock” path the employee will take and eliminate any identify possible issue. Plants, free moving carpets, and office furniture should be removed or moved to provide adequate space not only for the device this employee will use, but also to accommodate the sight issues. Once the employee makes it to her desk these same accommodation and ergonomics need to be applied. The desk itself design to accept a wheelchair or other device that might need to be used. If not this station will need to be changed to reflect the need. With weakness in her left side equipment should be moved to the right side of the desk. The workstation overall should also be uncluttered to leave only essential elements for this employee to complete her tasks. Implementing these changes will insure the employee can safely come and go from work everyday along with feeling comfortable while at her work station.  
