Now the company can take a look at the Nexus Phone in regards to price elasticity. With the Nexus 6 there are different factors that are at play due to most consumers considering cell phones to be a necessity. Also supply and demand can also affect price if we start losing customers to the competition. The Nexus this year has increased its pricing and puts this phone in the more luxury smartphone market. We can review the graph above to see how the pricing of this product has changed over the years. In this market there is definitely competition still but not as many as lower price points. Overall the price for Google Nexus will be inelastic at this point due to it being a new product in a less crowded market. Keeping this in mind, the lack of supply could affect this product and the in-elasticity of the price. Picture yourself as a consumer looking for a new premium smartphone and your eyes are set on the Google Nexus. If the product is not available to purchase at the time you want it, you will most likely buy a competitor's similar product. The demand might decrease which can in turn make the price be more elastic due to needing to attract more consumers back. As mentioned before ensuring supply and demand are in a equilibrium will help set the price for any product. 
The graph above shows the total revenue for Google from quarter 3 of 2012 to quarter 3 of 2014 for Google in the U.S. and internationally. One source outlines the revenue:
“Google sites generated $11.25 billion, which was 68 percent of total revenue (20 percent 	increase year over year). Network/partner site revenues were $3.43 billion, which was a 9 	percent increase year over year. Other revenues (Google Play primarily) were $1.84 billion, a 50 	percent increase vs last year. Revenue from outside the US was $9.55 billion (58 percent of total 	revenue). UK revenue in particular was $1.63 billion.” 
Revenue continues to grow year over year which demonstrates the vitality of the company. Earlier I looked closely at two innovative products, but Demand for Google's products as a whole is also a contributing factor in overall health of the company. If demand for the products was stagnant or decreasing we would see the graph either reaming the same or starting on a downward slope. Competition is also a factor in not only demand, but also in price elasticity. Below is a table showing Google vs. Apple in overall sales for the last couple of years and also projected for the next few years. Apple is a big competitor since they offer similar products in the same categories. With the demand of Google’s products increasing and launches of new products like Google glass, the estimate is that Google's sales growth will be more then double that of Apples. 
Additionally Google's start and continuing leading product is the search engine and it still holds about 68 percent of the market share. Google needs to continue to focus on aligning supply and demand for current services, along with continued focus on innovative products to set themselves apart. Doing this should keep demand increasing, which will in turn continue growing sales over the coming years. 
