	As identified Workstation 0001 and Workstation 0002 have many vulnerabilities that need to be addressed. Although there are some similarities between the two workstations, Workstation 0001 is more at risk. Both workstations have blank or simple passwords leaving all user accounts open to potential risks. All user accounts should have strong passwords. Leaving an account without a password or simple passwords leaves the door open to many potential risks. Also neither workstation are using the Password Expiration feature; this feature would help to mitigate problems that could potential occur if the system has been compromised.  Additionally there are more than two Administrators on both workstations. Giving out unnecessary privileges for the use on unsecured devices increases the chances that the Administrator credentials could be exposed. Admin accounts should not be used to surf the web or check e-mail, doing so puts the accounts at a high risk of being infected by malware. One positive that should continue would be both workstations are currently restricting anonymous access and  autologon, which add an extra level of security. “Anonymous users can access the share, which could be a security risk because the users could view files they shouldn't have permission to view. If write access is enabled, anonymous users could place viruses or other malicious software on the share”(Microsoft, 2011).
	Focusing on Workstation 0001, this workstation has a large number of vulnerabilities. The guest account is not disabled; leaving it open to anyone. Disabling the guest account will provide more protection. Additionally the auto update feature has been disabled, along with more than one hundred pending updates. Not updating leaves the network open for malware, viruses, and Trojans along with a number of other threats. Both systems need to be strengthened by correctly all of these issues along with adding more layers of protection.
	This network is comprised of two network switches, a firewall, and a file server on top of the workstations. Each piece of equipment needs to play a part in the overall security plan to insure the highest level available. Each device should be up to date on all drivers along with software versions. Another aspect is insuring all hardware is configured correctly whether its the firewall or the switches. The firewall is not configured 100 percent right at this point so correctly will insure it is doing its job on the network completely. The switch acts as a traffic cop for data throughout the network which means these switches should be up to date and current. A end of life for all equipment should be identified to insure the network is not using outdated equipment which will leave more vulnerabilities. 
