Society as a whole along with individual groups within.  Larger society as a whole will be decided by this issue. Sub groups like visually impaired individuals will embrace and shape this issue and technology.  Society as a whole will either embrace or repel this technology based on their overall feelings.  It's important to know sub groups like the visually impaired will welcome the technology and shape it to achieve greater freedom.
Human identity and control by machines are two topics discussed in this class that connect to autonomous vehicles.  These ideas and believes are challenged by the idea that these cars will take the ability of driving away.  Understanding this divide and concerns surrounding this technology informs myself and others. This technology is coming into the future, we will all need to decide whether we accept it.
With technology taking over more and more tasks humans and society will need to adapt and change. I predict we will see wide spread acceptance with some individuals choosing not to be a part of the evolution.
The idea that technology is replacing human interaction and abilities can be addresses by different methods. The way the technology is presented to society and also an active campaign to not lose the abilities we already have achieved. Actively showing that machines and automation are helping advance us and do not control us will be essential. Continuing to show value in having the abilities we already possess while not eliminating them complete will also be important.
Autonomous vehicles aim to completely remove driver interaction and abilities and put this responsibility solely on the computer. Newer technology is continuing to focus on removing the driver interaction complete compared to a more hybrid approach. A review of current design of these vehicles show removal of steering capabilities all together.  Offering the driver the option of going completely automated or not may be a better solution. If an issue does present itself allowing the driver to take control of the vehicle could solve these concerns.  Another idea being presented is having center staffed by humans to address these situation for the passenger of the autonomous car. The human could remotely take control of the vehicle and proceed beyond the obstacles.
I would address this issue by embracing the idea that humans still should have the ability to take control of their own vehicles. I would not completely eliminate this ability but embrace the technology to aid when humans want this level of automation.
Autonomous vehicles and the technology that goes along with it will have the ability to cure certain issues drivers face currently. Showing society they will still have their identity along with still needing to master the skill of driving can work together with autonomous cars.
