Every day is an adventure, just waiting to be explored. When you share the adventure with other people, that just makes it all the more better, because you know what? You never know what to expect; uncharted cable territory, a printer in distress, maybe even a lone coupler that needs help finding its way back home. My internship has been one of the best so far, and I hope to enjoy it for a good while longer. Now, my method and approach was not anything great mind you, but it was effective. It would be a regular day, and I would come with a clipboard, paper, and pencil; like a captain and his first mate, we would get ready to set sail… and that’s where the magic begins. Before I get started on a day in the life of an IT enterprise college intern, let me re-state the Learning Objectives:
Mr. Smith states that here I will learn what it takes to deliver networking and IT in general to a medium sized university. I will use what I have learned from Intermediate networking and security to better ensure that I can become more familiar with Network protocols and LANs. 
According to Mr. Smith, his infrastructure needs to be a utility that no one truly notices unless it has some downtime, and that’s way less frequently than a power outage at one’s home. I will learn what it takes to truly maintain a network/server/phone infrastructure. The infrastructure team will help me out as necessary in order to carry out everyday operations to ensure that I will be knowledgeable in this field.
In a typical day, we would start either with what the main boss or co-workers would assign us, or any incident that The Hub could not handle, investigate the scene, then ask/look for clues that would help us solve the incident to see what the true culprit was. It could be a sensor flag that didn’t work correctly in a printer, a busted port that needed to be replaced, or God forbid, a UPS that was failing its job at maintaining a long rack of data server cables and switches that kept the whole building’s Wi-Fi and data speed going; that’s just bad. Can you imagine if it was the president’s office? That would be pure chaos. 
There was times however when, no matter how hard we tried, we did not have the knowledge or know-how to help some people with their incidents. At that point, we would let them or personnel know and recommend some companies that might be better acquainted to handling this (in some cases that was the manufacturer themselves). Some days there would be some times where we would share stories and make puns and learn from each other of anything, whether it was IT-related or not, but as long as we had gotten things done within the week, deadlines were usually met. I would write down what I learned, researched, and a good bit of times, take action as well (which was similar to class learning for me, but as a one on one talk and hands on session instead). Some of the new skills that I acquired involved setting up a new wireless Access point and hardcoding it in putty, which I learned from fundamental LANs class; I was not the best at putting them up in the ceiling though… but hey, you never know till you try, right? I had also taken note of cable port placement and documented it for future reference from a data server, replaced new uninterruptible power supplies that went bad, replaced a toner cartridge from a printer, learned how the VOIP phones worked, how they were powered up, and the different situations that they could be used for (such as seeing if a security camera was still receiving power by plugging a VOIP phone in and seeing if it received power over ethernet), or locking them into place. 
