The clothing that the characters in the play film wore, seems to be of a dark and/or serious feel to themselves throughout the story. Cardinal, for example, wore clothing that seemed to make him look like the pope; and yet, this cannot really be felt in the words he portrayed in the story. Or it could be that I envisioned him in a different light. I don't recall the jester being in the play film, at least not in a goofy fashion, and even if he was, he didn't have that much of a role to play, or he himself was in clothing unusual of a jester. Throughout the years I’ve seen shows or plays involving them, however, there had always been something that made me curious regarding the consequences of what would happen had the jester failed to carry out his duty to make the Queen, King, Duchess, or other high authority figure – would he be fired? Would it be off with his head? This is a serious job to consider, and that is no joke. Their job is to make that high authority laugh and be entertained, although I could only imagine that this would be difficult at times. Back to Cardinal though, his robes felt as though they should have been picked from the finest silk this side of London, dignifying his position of high maintenance, caution, and care. The Duchess seemed to be in character a good amount of the time. In the written play, I imagined her to be wearing something very similar to the countess' clothing that is on the front of our English Norton Anthology book. Though this was usually in public. In the play film, there were times when she had serious clothing still, but not as flashy or pompous as what might have been imagined from the written play. On a different note, I don't like the fact that bosola was totally alright killing not only Duchess, but Cariola, and their children. This brings me back to introduction to film class, when Dr. Bonner was talking about the movie “The Searchers”, with the story of a cowboy and an Indian fallen in love with each other. Although the father of the cowboy would have had to kill the Indian before they got together and had children (and probably would of killed the children too) since they had killed most of the Indian females there anyway to ensure this wouldn't happen, just because their different and didn't want them to mix together. Another example would be Romeo and Juliet, their love lives were never meant to be for each other since they had two different families that had a grudge against each other. There is just so much hate (and plot twists) in these stories just to keep these people apart.  Mean, why go through so much trouble just to break apart a good loving relationship, even at the expense of killing off the children? Can't we all just get along? It just isn't right. The children don't even know or should have to play a part in this, because they are victims of circumstance. 
