	Women responded to work differently depending on martial status, age, race, class, and number of children. Half of the women who took war jobs were lower-class and minority women that were already in the workforce. They switched from lower-paying traditional female jobs to higher-paying factory jobs. But still, more women were needed, so companies kept recruiting women, even ones just graduating from high school. Eventually, it was apparent that married women were going to be needed despite the fact no one wanted them to work, especially if they had young children. Married women were hard to recruit, because even if they themselves had wanted to work, many of their husbands were against this. Originally, women with children under 14 were encouraged to stay home so that they could care for their families. The government feared that an increase in working mothers would lead to a rise in juvenile delinquents. It was only inevitable that  the demand for clerical workers would be so great that it exceeded the supply.
	Like men, women would quit their jobs if they were unhappy with their location, environment, or pay. Unlike men, women suffered from the “double shift” of work and caring for the family and the home. During the war, working mothers had childcare problems and the public would sometimes blame them for the rise in juvenile delinquency. In reality though, around ninety percent of mothers were home at any given time. The majority of women thought thought that they could beset serve the war effort by staying at home. 
	During the war, the average family on the homefront had a housewife and a working husband. Some women liked to work, but others could not accept the inconveniences it caused. Most women saved the money they earned. Between the wartime shortages and long working hours, there was not much to spend money on at the time. Women workers were usually reminded to buy war bonds. After the war, the money was used to buy luxuries and houses that had been unavailable before and during the war. Mothers may have made it into the picture, but some women have made great strides during World War II.
	History.com states that one of the lesser-known roles women played in the war effort was provided by the Women’s Airforce Service Pilots, or WASPs. These women, each of whom had  obtained their pilot’s license prior to service beforehand, became the first women to fly American military aircraft. They ferried planes from factories to bases, transporting cargo and participating in simulation strafing and target missions, accumulating more than 60 million miles in flight distances and freeing thousands of male U.S. pilots for active duty in World War II. More than 1,000 WASPs served, and 38 of them lost their lives during the war. Considered civil service employees and without official military status, these fallen WASPs were granted no military honors or benefits, and it wasn’t until 1977 that the WASPs received full military status. On March 10, 2010, at a ceremony in the Capitol, the WASPS received the Congressional Gold Medal, one of the highest civilian honors. More than 200 former pilots attended the event, many wearing their World War II-era uniforms. That took a long time in and of itself for them to receive the rewards as such that they had deserved however.
