It's amazing how narrow-minded people can be in the past, whether it's a gender related issue, race, heritage, or social status, all revolving around society (which isn't too far off from today). Back during World War II, Women were never given a chance as equals given the same pay rate as men in terms of careers, Mothers were not wanted in the workplace as a response to the shortage of labor because of children they should take care of, and  women made great strides, but in the end, still was told to go back home after the war was over. 
	According to Beaton, sex segregation regarding the work force has been in effect for quite some time now, and is still existent with some jobs and careers out there. Some employers distinguish men from woman’s work pay such that the normal needs of men are greater than women, since a man is paid to support a family, while a women would support only herself. During World War II, there was a reluctance to allow woman into employment at all, but as the war continued, it become evident that if the country was to make what it could of its resources and keep thriving, then women would have to take over the jobs of men so that they could be released for combatant duty into the military. and even then, there are the roles of women that should be considered in other countries too. 
	We do not even know their situation or where they stood in the work place as opposed to the United States during the same time period. One could look at the first men' job being offered to women in October 1940, but not without some effort on the woman's side. The Royal Australian Air Force faced a shortage of telegraph operators; in response to this, three hundred and fifty women had been trained by voluntary groups of women desperate to help the war effort. There was a estimate that it would of taken around eight months and much money per person to train me to the same standard, so the RAAF decided to form together the Woman’s Auxiliary Australian Air Force to make more use for the operative skills of the trained Women.
	Sorensen specifies that the government had decided to launch a propaganda campaign to sell the importance of the war effort as well as lure women into working. They did this by promoting the fictional character of “Rosie the Riveter” as an ideal woman, who was beautiful, patriotic, and very loyal. This in turn had led to many other Rosie images and women to represent that image. One example would be the media finding Rose Hicker from Tarrytown, New York, and picturing her with her partner as they drove in a record number of rivets into the wing of a Grumman Bomber on June 8, 1943. A few months after the famous of images of Rosie appeared, the government had a commissioned poster of her with the words “We can do it”.
