The movies to be reviewed in accordance is Braveheart, Marie Antoinette, and Brother Sun, Sister Moon. Each movie has its own set time period in which they have different cultures, act towards each other, eat, and is in a class of their own, throughout that story.
In Marie Antoinette, she was dressed royally from the beginning as a child, and was spoiled greatly, but as she came into being with Louis XIV, things began to change for her life, similar to the time in Braveheart, when William Wallace had to leave his village after his father and brother was killed.  Near the ending of braveheart, I liked how William Wallace (the son) had always shown compassion, confidence, and a fearless heart toward his people, no matter what challenges had awaited him. Even near the end of the film, as he was punished, he still never showed any sign of groveling or begging at the hands of his executioners. If a bible scripture could best describe him, it would be John 14:27: “Let not your heart be troubled, nor let it be afraid.”
During the movie Brother sun, sister moon, there was quite a few times that when they had went to the church, Jesus Christ was on a cross, but what struck me differently was that it was a golden crown, with jewels as if he had a royal-esque going on about himself, compared to the usual type we see, with raggedy to little clothing, and a thorn crown, if any; So this was a very glorified version of him dying for our sins, which I would take that into consideration that he was highly praised there. In all three movies though, they always did the jesus Christ gesture, moving their hand from the head to their chest, and then side to side; that being said, the religion was somewhat strong, if not more devoted to, in others. When compared though, it would be Brother sun, sister moon because of the many events to the church and the glorified jesus cross, Braveheart because of the funerals and drastic times in which to use them, and then Marie Antoinette in terms of the cross gesture, Louis becoming a king, and them having a child.
Speaking of children though, In Marie Antoinette, it was obviously imperative that Marie had to make a child in order to official keep her stay as queen of France. It was very discouraged when all her siblings had children, compared to her, even though Louis XIV was hard to get along with, so it wasn’t an easy challenge at all! I remember we went over in class the importance of this happening when I watched the film. It wasn’t as important in braveheart though, and certainly not in brother sun, sister moon. When you are talking about doing this for a whole country though, that’s a big burden put upon anyone’s shoulders.  There was definitely a love for nature for the main characters throughout the movies: Braveheart they loved festivities and activities such as rock throwing and dancing and music outside whenever they could, or William going into the woods with his love life; Marie Antoinette, Marie always loved going outside into the grass, and especially into her garden later, walking her daughter in there was well; and in Brother Sun, Sister moon, Fransesco loved going in there as well, although he took it to a whole different level by going so far as to be naked into the wildnerness, but all the same, nature was definitely involved. In Marie Antoinette and Braveheart, the royal was very pampered and spoiled as a result of being part of royalty. For marie, she couldn’t even put on a dress herself without her servants waking her out of bed and dressing her up. She was not allowed to do it herself, and it showed inappropriateness as a future queen. As with Braveheart, King Shanks son had his servants following him around with a mirror and keeping notes written down for him, as he walked.
