Compared to some of the weapons used in braveheart, there was a class session that we had in which trebuckets and hot sand was talked about, that was used to stop any soldiers from getting into the castle or fortress; however in the film, there was the use of hot (or regular) oil instead, and usually lit with fire by arrows later afterwards. There was a scene where William did a move that Martel the hammer would have probably used, but with a sword, with flung into the body of a noble. It’s a wonder if the Vikings and Irish ever met at some point to actually learn from each other any of those moves, as Charles Martel was born around 686 A.D. while Braveheart took place in 1280 A.D. In Marie Antoinette, I didn’t see much besides a mob like attack with fire and hook like sticks, and there wasn’t much as far as I saw in brother sun, sister moon. In braveheart, there was a definite change of class between different people, such as what they wore, whether they were wearing rags as farmers, or the nobles wearing high and rich clothing, and the middle class wearing fur pelts and kilts. In Brother sun sister moon, they had a scholarly feel about the way they wore their clothing, such as Pietro, who was a wealthy textile merchant, The people who he treated downstairs had little to no clothing however. Compare this to Braveheart, and it seems like they had a slightly better clothing style, and a middle class of clothing too, what with fur pelts and kilts and what not. In Marie Antoinette, it was all mostly royal clothing, in a nice flair of blue/gold, blue/silver, and red, white and blue worn on King Louis XIV; I wonder if that was an reference to the Americans during the revolution? There wasn’t really a low class setting for people though, except for one little black child, but even he was dressed in nice knickerbockers, so it’s really hard to base an opinion on how he came up.
In conclusion, for Marie Antoinette, Braveheart, and Brother sun, sister moon, each movie showed its own terms for its history, their cultures, how people acted and thrived, and the situation that they were going through in that time period. There’s a lot that could be learned from these films about our past history as well, and I found all three to be a very unique and enjoyable experience into the past times of important people in life. Can’t say much has changed though! We’re middle classed people here as opposed to buckhead, but that’s alright. The greatest gift of wealth is happiness, perseverance, and doing the right thing.
