	One of the reasons for feeling this way was that children that lived in extended families during the war enjoyed being pampered and disliked the determination that some returning fathers had to fulfill their paternal role and impose discipline; their return disrupted the home-front in various ways. Children feared that their fathers would not stay and as a result did not want to become too attached to them, in case that they might have to leave again, or angry that the father had left in the first place. The homecoming was especially hard on both father and child in a family where the child was born during the war or was very young when the father left. Most of them hardly recognized their father and were fearful at these new strangers. Another problem faced by returning fathers was their belief that their son had become “soft” in the absence of a strong male-role model. 
	The return of the father in the domestic life also affected the gender relation after the war. Children found their lives complete without their fathers and some even found that they had more freedom when their father was gone. Girls that found their mothers working and performing what was before considered male role, were found to develop less traditional feminine sex roles. One could say that the working mom inspired the children of the era to be more independent themselves. This probably served as an origin to the feminist movements in later decades. 
	Baby boomers also had a great part into the events that had taken place after the war. pbs.org states that After the war, the birth rate increased dramatically. Although many people assume that the baby boom happened because peace and prosperity returned, historian Elaine Tyler May points out in Homeward Bound: American Families in the Cold War Era that the rise in the number of births went far beyond what was expected from a return to peace. Previous periods of post-war prosperity, notably the period after World War I, had not led to such dramatic increases in marriage and childbearing. In the late 1940s and early 1950s, Americans in their childbearing years had weathered the Depression and a devastating war, and they were living under a cloud of possible nuclear war. After studying statistics, personal testimony, and popular culture imagery and language, May concluded, "Americans turned to the family as a bastion of safety in an insecure world... cold war ideology and the domestic revival [were] two sides of the same coin."  
	John Grable could probably agree on this when he says that  women to report a lower willingness to take financial risk than men. This is true in nearly every situation and circumstance, not just as it relates to financial issues. Men are more likely to engage in sensation-seeking activities. Men are more willing to take health risks. Men are more prone to gamble. In terms of taking financial risks, when the portfolios of men and women are compared, the asset allocation of risky assets is, on the average, higher in men portfolios. At this point, it would be easy to simply state that men are more risk tolerant than women, and then move onto other characteristic differences and similarities within the baby boom generation. Not only did the soldiers have to bring authority back to their children and produced the baby boomer era after World War II, but they also had difficulty with abusive as well as behavioral problems that could of created higher divorce rates as a result of the war.
