	Many of the United States Soldiers had Post Trauma Stress Disorder from a result of World War Two.  According to Dekel, Tamar, and Zahava, Post traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is the most prevailing psychiatric outcome following trauma. It impairs daily functioning and overall well-being. While a sizable portion of survivors experience distress that fades within weeks, a significant subgroup fails to recover and suffers from enduring symptoms. Individuals exposed to a trauma of prolonged and extreme nature have a heightened vulnerability for PTSD. 
	Post-traumatic stress disorder, or "shell shock", was common among the returning soldiers. Most wives and children noticed behavioral changes in the men that they knew before the war. Veterans returning from the battlefield would suffer nightmares and flashbacks of combat, about their alienation and loneliness , desperation and withdrawal. These results of combat and the increase in alcoholism among the returning G.I.'s lead to an upward spiral in the number of divorces that occurred after the war.  And then you had to consider the higher officials that added on to this, who castes PTSD off as non-existent. I believe wordpress can verify this, by saying that, Although psychiatrists were advancing in their understanding of war trauma, combat exhaustion was not universally accepted. General George Patton was notable in his lack of sympathy for the psychological afflictions of soldiers. He is said to have slapped two soldiers who were recuperating in a military hospital while yelling to a medical officer, “Don’t admit this yellow bastard…There’s nothing the matter with him. I won’t have the hospitals cluttered up with these sons of bitches who haven’t got the guts to fight”. President Roosevelt received thousands of letters about the incident, most of which indicated support for Patton. “Ultimately, though, Patton was reprimanded, ordered to apologize, and relieved of command of the Seventh Army”. 
	One could also consider one's hands-on experience with what their father had to actually go through in the war, and how it was after they had returned. Take Carol Veato for example, after she had received an interview question, recorded by Badeau, 
