On the plus side though, I did like the boy's clothing style, it reminded me of the type that the newspaper boys would wear: pants or shorts with suspenders, a white dress shirt, and dress shoes, but minus the news cap hat. Cariola appeared to look like a maid only wearing that uniform throughout the play's film, and it suited her character quite well. She was caring and very loving to Duchess, not wanting to leave her side as she was to be killed by Bosola and the mad men. Her character reflects upon the film and the written version of the play quite evenly, and also seemed to not be as serious as the other characters most of the time, which can make one feel more at ease, as this was a very dark play many a times, the film being a great example of this as it was a one scene background most of the time, and even then, there was a darkness in all but the center of the stage. The mad men who killed Cariola and Duchess wore executioner-like clothing, what with the black overlord hoods and such, as if they were ready to behead someone. This makes me wonder if the KKK had similar fashion style to represent themselves as such, despite the motives to be different (Bringers of death for black people). The suit that Ferdinand had worn near the beginning of the play had a red color of feel to it, which could of indicated how his character's demeanor, actions, and behavior was mostly throughout the play. He mainly was a ruthless character, more so than his brother cardinal, and seemed to be out for blood, or in other words, he was stark mad. That color clothing is a great representation of his character throughout both written and filmed version of the play. Although Bolsa had a black clothing style about himself: Heartless, cut throat, whatever it takes to get money, he will stop at nothing to acquire it. A cold hard cash businessman at its finest. The scary part about him though is that he did well to hide his intentions, despite how insane they may have been. He is that quite and calculating man that you have to look out for. At least with Ferdinand, you could probably see it coming, but it was not to be expected of Bosola until after the deed has been done, at which point it would be too late. Julia seemed to be revelaing a bit much when see with cardinal regarding her clothing, like she was one of those ladies on the wild side, and just did not care. Although I find it ironic that she gets killed by kissing a poisoned bible, which possibly gives divine retribution or judgment by God, for the sins that she has committed to cheat on her husband by seeing and kissing Cardinal many times. They seem to have found the right clothing for her character, given her behavior and expression about herself. All in all though, each character seemed to have clothing in the play that mainaly expressed who their character was, or how they acted and behaved themselves, like a feel of their own well-being and existence, if you will. 
