There was some good for the war to finally be over, as the men from the war had finally gotten to return home to their families, but there was also a lot of difficulty for them, as well as the women and/or wives that they had to return to. The difficulties that they had to face included women losing work in the workplace due to their return, their authority to their children upon returning and birth rate increase, and abusive as well as behavioral problems that they had as a result of the war that might of ended up in higher divorce rates. 
	Firstly, as if it was not already bad enough that women were not being treated equally enough as men before or during World War Two, or paid as fairly, now as the soldiers returned back to their country after the war was over, a vast majority of soldiers were taking jobs back in the United States, forcing most the women to leave the workforce. According to studyworld.com, with a lack of availability of jobs upon return, this was mostly inevitable.  This independence given to women during the war and its removal with the advent of the returning men, had a definitive effect on gender relations in American society in which one of the seeds of the women rights movements in later decades. 
	As stated by pbs.org, With the international expansion of the American economy after the war, men's wages were higher than ever before, making it possible for the first time in U.S. history for a substantial number of middle class families to live comfortably on the income of one breadwinner. Yet the figures reveal that by the early 1960s, more married women were in the labor force than at any previous time in American history. This wasn't entirely bad though, as Tupperware homes sales offered a solution, providing women with work they could do in their homes -- part-time, for as many or as few hours as they chose, on flexible schedules that accommodated the needs of children and the demands of housework. Home party selling allowed women to do income-producing work they didn't need to call "work," but instead "having parties." When they joined "the Tupperware family," they didn't need to leave their own families behind. Not only did the soldiers and women in the workforce have to make a difficult transition to obtain jobs after the war was over, but the soldiers now had to maintain the role of a father authority figure to their children upon coming back from the war.
	Soldiers coming back from the war had a difficult time taking back the authoritative role of a father when coming back from World War II mainly since they have been gone for so long. According to studyworld.com, most of the fathers that returned were concerned with how they would fit into the family system. Some fathers were honestly determined to take an active role in the family and they did so by becoming the master disciplinary. Returning fathers came home to find undisciplined and unruly children, a far cry from the ordered military life that they had lived during the war. Some children even resented at the strangers who were entering their lives for the second time, that seemed complete without them. 
