        Pope Gregory’s letter represented conversion in a much different way than Clovis’. Between the end of Clovis’ reign in 511 C.E. and Gregory becoming Pope in 590 C.E Christianity continued to gain support throughout Europe. When Gregory created the Donation of Constantine document it gave him full control over the West and the Church was in its strongest position yet. The Church was no longer fighting to survive and instead looking for ways to expand. One of Pope Gregory’s biggest priorities was to convert all of the Anglo-Saxons in Southern England to Christianity, which is addressed in his letter to Mellitus. 
        Gregory’s approach in converting these Anglo-Saxons involved only minor changes in their everyday rituals of Paganism. This can be seen in the letter when Gregory writes “for wit, that the temples of idols in that nation should not be destroyed, but that the idols themselves that are in them should be…” 5Gregory is allowing the Anglo-Saxons to maintain their places of worship; they just have to change what they are worshipping. While this idea may appear positive at first there are definite negatives resulting from the lack of sincerity in this approach. First, how are these Anglo-Saxons supposed to feel like they’re apart of a new religion when they are in not only the same location but also the same building that they practiced Paganism in? Is simply letting “Blessed water be prepared and sprinkled in these temples”6 as Gregory describes enough to make them forget about all of their previous Gods and idols? This is a lazy way to go about conversion. If Gregory wants these people to drop their previous religion he should at least give them a new place to worship. This would allow the Anglo-Saxons to start fresh and not constantly be reminded of their previous beliefs. 
        Another example of the lack of sincerity in Pope Gregory’s letter is when he writes “Nor let them any longer sacrifice animals to the devil, but slay animals to the premise of God for their own eating…”7 This isn’t connecting the Anglo-Saxons to Christianity or helping them understand the religion any better. They are performing the same task just for a different reason. And how can Gregory know what they’re killing the animals for? Sure, they can say that it’s for Christianity but there’s no way of knowing whether that is true or not. They could easily continue to practice Paganism without being caught.  With the lack of sincerity in Gregory’s conversion process these Pagans fail to get an understanding and connection to their new religion and also fail to lose the connection to their previous beliefs. 
