As I reflect upon this data I realize the differences in how the real life story would have played out depending on my Internet access. For this I relate to Meredith Broussard’s book Artificial Unintelligence and her concept of technochauvinism. Technochauvinism is centered around the concept of “Blind optimism about technology and an abundant lack of caution about how new technologies will be used…” Now, relating this back to my search history technology did provide me a mass amount of readily available information to jump start my fitness journey, but what did it change or take away? Well, if I didn’t have this access then I would have needed to build my knowledge base through other people. This would have required me to go out and meet individuals with similar interests and network. While it was certainly much easier to obtain the information on the Internet, it stripped me of potential friendships and connections that I would have been forced to build without it. 
The credibility and reliability of the data that I have put into these algorithms over the years is difficult to draw conclusions on. On one hand, it can be viewed as entirely accurate due to the fact that the conclusions made are based on only what you tell the algorithms so how can they be false? On the other hand, these algorithms are missing an essential part of understanding humans and that is emotional intelligence. Emotional intelligence is what allows each of us to look at and understand the uniqueness of everyone as an individual and the qualities that define them. The important thing to remember when thinking about how computers delve into and digest all of our personal data is that they cannot think, they simply reach conclusions based on all other available data. 
That brings me to the concept of ethics and the role it plays in computers and algorithms. As technology, specifically those that take in the personal information of millions of people every day continue to advance the topic of ethics and when it becomes too intrusive is a needed discussion. With the Internet being relatively new, at least to the extent of mass data collection on every single thing someone types into their computer, the laws to protect our privacy are not to the standards that many would like. A couple months ago I remember having a conversation with my brother and he mentioned getting engaged. A little while later I was browsing my web and saw advertisements for wedding rings and was immediately alarmed. There comes a point where boundaries are pushed too far, and this was a moment I felt that way. Don’t get me wrong; the capabilities that these advanced forms of technology provide that, even 15 years ago, seemed impossible, but that doesn’t mean there aren’t problems.  For one, many are unaware to the idea that everything they do on the Internet is tracked unless they follow precautions. Almost every app, email, website, or social media account will at some point ask for personal information or require you to turn over specific data to use that platform. In the case of Google, they allow you to use their services for free but in turn you reveal your entire search history. 
