	Now, as I reflect upon this data that I’ve inputted I can see a couple potential alternative stories that these algorithms may have developed. As mentioned by John Cheney-Lippold in his book We Are Data “In this ‘as if’ story of discovery, it is data that drives the plot”. I view this statement from Cheney-Lippold as the driving factor behind alternative stories in the data that we put on the Internet. The unique thing about these online algorithms is they only know the information that you provide and thus, can only make conclusions based on that data. They have no idea that at the time of these searches I was nearly 30 pounds underweight looking for a way to change this. While the search reasons are clear to me, they are not to the algorithm and it must put together each piece of data to make its determination as to what my motives are. 
The first potential narrative that I have developed from this project is the idea that I am a physical trainer working with a new client. I view this as a potential narrative due to the fact that many of my search queries pertain to different exercises and foods. The algorithm could take this to mean that I am trying to develop a diet and fitness routine for someone. Another reasoning behind this potential narrative is based on my YouTube history. During the week of December 15, 2015 through December 22, 2015 I have a lot of videos watched of fitness trainers. I do not see evidence in my Google activity that I subscribed to these members but I am under the assumption that this data is known by the algorithm given it knows I watched the video. A potential interpretation here is that I am trying to collect information from fellow trainers in order to improve my knowledge and job performance.  
Another potential alternative narrative that my data could be interpreted as is the idea that I am overweight and am focused on losing weight more so than becoming involved in fitness. For this potential narrative I relate back to Gina Neff and Dawn Nafus’s book Self-Tracking. In this book self-tracking is defined as “how and why people record, analyze, and reflect on data about themselves”. One of the main things that individuals track is what they eat, specifically calorie intake. I did not include all of them in my search query list because I felt that it would be redundant but I searched for over 20 foods pertaining to the number of calories in each during this 3-month period. Due to the fact that Google identifies one of my measurable types as being a white American and that white Americans have an issue with obesity problems there is a strong possibility that I was viewed as an overweight individual looking for ways to develop a healthy diet and exercise routine.  
Of these alternative narratives I find the one about me being someone that is looking to lose weight as the most accurate. I feel this way because weight loss is such a trendy subject nowadays within America due to a significant spike in obesity rates over the past few years. This makes me to believe that with those factors considered Google would have weight loss weighted as a strong factor in its algorithm for any topics related to fitness or nutritional information. As previously stated, online algorithms can only draw conclusions based on the data that you give them access too. The rest is all weighted based on similar circumstances of other individual’s data. 
