	There are also some disadvantages in adding a systems analyst to your company. One of these disadvantages is the threat for over analysis.  Sometimes there is a simple solution to a problem and when you spend hours upon hours trying to evaluate and come up with a solution you end up making the solution more complex than it needs to be. Another potential disadvantage of systems analysis is the fact that employees will feel as if they always have to look over their shoulder as they work. If a system analyst constantly checks on the work of fellow colleagues it will begin to irritate them and impact the quality of work and rate at which the work gets done. One more potential disadvantage of system analysis is that it can be time consuming and thus result in a significant expense to the company. This is normally countered by an improved result, but the higher ups in the company may not always view it this way and may become frustrated with the expense. 
	Personally, I could see myself eventually progressing into a systems analyst role towards the middle part of my career. I don’t feel that I could jump right into this role early in my career because it requires strong skills with communication as well as significant knowledge of IT. At this point in time I see myself as more developed in the programming area and am lacking in the people/communication skills. I hope for my first job out of college to be in database development. In the few classes that I have taken so far relating to databases and other programming languages I have enjoyed them and would like to progress further within this field. This would be a great background for a future as a systems analyst because it is essential to have an understanding of the technology/programming side of things in order to be an effective systems analyst.  After doing database development for several years I would like to move onto database administration. A database administrator is similar to a system analyst in that they take a management role within their area and troubleshoot issues that may come up. After gaining experience as a database administrator I could see myself becoming a system analyst if I see the potential for growth from that position.
	I feel that a systems analyst’s role in their organization between IT or the user community should work with both communities but be more structured towards the user community. I feel this way because the users will most likely not fully understand the technical side of the system they are looking to put into place. It is important for a systems analyst to come into play here and explain to the users what they will be getting and also walk them through the testing process.  The systems analyst must also have some influence within the IT department in order to understand the nuances of their staff. 
