Imagine a world where you need to research, interview, analyze, and report findings under strict timelines and then face immense scrutiny for that report. This is the world of a data journalist and it is one that takes great passion to be successful. I decided to dive into an article titled Why Police Dismiss 1 in 5 Sexual Assault Claims as Baselines written by Robyn Doolittle to analyze the work of a data journalist and the implications of their writing on the public. This article relies on statistics to support the claim that in Canada sexual assault allegations are oftentimes not approached in the right manner leading to unfounded rates near 20 percent. Based on the data presented in this article by Doolittle, I agree with her claims that sexual assault is not approached correctly but also would argue that she did not include certain information that would have been necessary to paint a more accurate picture. The access to and manipulation of data is something that a data journalist must be conscious of if they want to portray the truth and in this article it is not done to the best of it’s ability. 
 	After reading Doolittle’s article mentioned above, what is immediately evident is that she goes to great lengths to address her points and uses several examples of data that backs her claims.  The most influential part of the article for me was how the article was structured. It referred to a story about a college female, Ava, that experienced sexual assault and in the end her case was dismissed. While doing this, Doolittle strategically includes relevant data about how sexual assault is dismissed at alarming rates throughout Canada as well as the rest of the world. One place where this is evident is when Doolittle states  “Ava’s case is not an outlier. Her complaint is among the more than 5,000 allegations of sexual assault closed as unfounded by Canadian law enforcement every year, according to a Globe and Mail investigation into the authorities’ handling of sexual-assault cases.”  This helps exhibit that Ava’s case is not one out of the norm and provides credibility to Doolittle’s claim.
	Another strength of this article is that Doolittle uses data from official sources, which in turn revealed some findings that were interesting. This is highlighted in Meredith Broussards Artificial Unintelligence where she states “Some data journalists get data from official sources and analyze it to find insights. These insights lead to uncomfortable truths.” The data supports the claims being made by Doolittle and make it difficult to dismiss those claims because of the sources of the data. These sources included every police station in the country of Canada, complainants from across the country, as well as a wide range of statistics for different provinces in Canada 
	 While the evidence presented by Doolittle is significant and credible, that doesn’t mean the story is without error. Referencing Broussard’s Artificial Unintelligence, specifically her chapter “Popular Doesn’t Mean Good” led me to this conclusion. In this chapter Broussard discusses how just because something may be trending in the media doesn’t mean that it is necessarily a good thing, and vice versa. This relates to the article by Doolittle because she took a topic, sexual assault, that has garnered significant attention over the past few years and wrote an article that is missing valuable information, preventing it from being, as Broussard would say, good. 
