	What I gained from this research is that my protein levels definitely have an effect on my overall feeling on a day-to-day basis. The first day of this experiment I went with what I viewed as a baseline protein intake of 80 grams, overall I felt normal this day and nothing out of the ordinary. I didn’t notice any strength differences in the weight room either. For days 2 and 3 I decreased my intake to 65 grams a day and by the end of day 3 I noticed myself feeling more fatigued than usual. I also was bench-pressing around 10 pounds less than usual. For the final two days of the study I increased my protein intake to 95 grams (against my doctor’s wishes) and noticed that by day 5 I was feeling stronger and more capable of concluding a day without a crash. 
	What I do realize about this study is that the data is minimal and there are other factors that may be preventing it from being accurate. One reason for this data being inaccurate may pertain back to Neff and Nafus’s idea of normal. According to their book Self-Trackng  “When people try out an activity tracker for the first time the first question they often ask is whether their readings are normal.”  Relating back to my protein study I set a baseline level of 80 grams of protein as normal due to my doctors wishes. It is a common belief that mental abilities can have a significant impact on your physical being. I view it as entirely possible that knowing I lowered my protein intake made me think that I was more tired and weaker than I actually was and vice versa for the increased protein intake.  Another aspect that may be misrepresented in this study is my overall protein intake. While I did the best that I could to read the labels to calculate total protein it is all a guessing game. Did I actually eat a cup of peanuts or was it more like ¾ cup? Was it a serving of tuna or a serving and a half? Who’s to say the info on the nutrition label is entirely accurate. The point is that while the numbers are probably close in terms of total protein intake they are not exact and small differences can have an impact on the results. 
	An important concept to remember when evaluating your quantified self is the idea that data can play two roles in your life, “one where data plays an active role in changing one’s life and the other where it plays a more passive role to support personal reflection.”  When evaluating myself based on the data from this study I have initially reflected upon the data and the reasons behind it. Once I have drawn conclusions upon reflection it is important to fill in those gaps that the quantified self does not provide. This includes information such as medical articles, consultations from medical professionals, and reaching out to people in similar situations. After acquiring the necessary knowledge from these sources I can then move onto taking steps to change activities in my life to reach my goals. 
