        While Gregory’s letter lacks compassion there must have been reasoning behind this, right? After all, he is a well-educated man in charge of an entire religion and he didn’t reach this point on accident. Pope Gregory and the Church had so much power that Gregory may not have deemed it necessary to put much effort into the conversion of the Anglo-Saxons. They would feel intimidated by the Church and submit to Gregory without putting up much of a fight. But why not use that power as an ally in conversion? The Angli people certainly would not have protested a stricter approach because of their inferiority to the Church. They didn’t have the ability to overtake the Church if war broke out. Gregory should have taken advantage of this and made the conversion process more difficult and remove all associations with Paganism. This would allow them to not only connect with the new religion but also put previous beliefs in the past. They would gain a better understanding of Christianity as a whole and understand what it means to be a Christian. 
        The results of Gregory’s actions were seen over 150 years later in the Iconoclastic Council. The Iconoclastic Council document refers to how Christianity is straying away from its overall goal as a religion. Artists and painters were making paintings of God, Saints and Christ8. When the Church sent out missionaries to promote Christianity to people such as the Anglo-Saxons they brought these paintings to represent the religion.  The problem here is that these sacred characters in Christianity are not suppose to have an image, rather they are figures of the imagination. When these missionaries were going out and spreading Christianity the people converting began to worship these drawings instead of the sacred themselves. This all relates back to Pope Gregory and the lack of sincerity in his conversion process. If he had instilled a conversion process where the Anglo-Saxons and other converters went through a life-altering process such as Clovis then they would have understood the religion better and not gotten so caught up with the idols. 
        It is often said that it’s not the problem you face, but how you approach the problem that ultimately defines success. This is the case with Pope Gregory and his approach to converting the Anglo-Saxons. While the task of conversion is relatively simple, Gregory should have put more effort into the process to ensure that these people knew what it meant to be a Christian. The element of sincerity is irreplaceable and Pope Gregory failed to instill this into these Pagans that had lasting consequences on the Church as a whole. 
