The song "Don't Tread on Me," performed by Metallica, represents a depiction of my generation. It speaks of the right to be left alone, and the right to fight back if that right is disturbed. If people read through the lyrics quickly, it will not represent much to them except that it glorifies violence, which is not true if they take the time to understand the meaning behind it. It represents speaking out for what you believe in.
	The first verse represents the want to be left alone, First, the quote "Once you provoke her, rattling of her tail" is comparing my generation to a rattlesnake. It serves as a warning to those who would seek to stick their noses in our business. Second, "Never begins it, never, but once engaged," speaks of our refusal to start any conflict unless provoked first. Third, "Never surrenders, showing the fangs of rage" says that we won't tolerate such confrontations, but when we get involved, we win every time.
	The stirring chorus states that "the only way to ensure peace is to prepare for war." A lot of this warfare rhetoric can describe the people of my generation very well. It's sort of like the US military mantra "Hurry up and wait." That way, even if something unexpected happens, you know exactly what to do and you're not left scrambling for a response. This is true of my rebellious generation as opposed to previous generations, who upon aging have become lazy and content and expect they will continue to dominate over us forever. But just like the seasons change, so too does the balance of power. The difference is that those who the song describes will never be content, will never take it for granted. They will fight every time if what they hold dear if someone tries to steal it from them. It is important to understand this mindset in order to see the lyrics of the song in the proper context. You can truly understand what Hetfield and company were saying, instead of just taking it at face value as a song about war and rebellion. 
	The second verse says that we will overcome any obstacle with great force. For example, the quote "Love it or leave it, she with the deadly bite" reiterates the rattlesnake comparison and dstaets that if you don't have anything to contribute, get out. Also, "quick is the blue tongue, forked as a lightning strike" compare the rattlesnake (our generation's) tongue to a lightning strike. Last, "the eyes, they never close, emblem of vigilance" says that we are always on guard and take pride in that.
	Certainly the metaphors and similes in this poem represent violence to some, but others who look between the lines will see that it speaks of a group of people. All people from the group are not like the song describes. In fact, every one of them are different, but the song describes the sort of mental "oversoul" of the entire generation.
