	In the Belgariad and the Elenium are two different stories, yet if one reads carefully, one can tell that the stories are spun from the same cloth. For example, some characters have the same mannerisms. Both Belgarath from the Belgariad and Aphrael from the Elenium have a habit where they tug at their earlobes when they are nervous. Hettar from the Belgariad and Ulath from the Elenium are quiet and don't speak unless they have something important to say. Also, some events in the plot are the same. In the middle of both stories, the hero and his companions are being hunted down something. In the Belgariad, it's the Dagushi man Brill. In the Elenium, it's the Seeker. There is also some kind of climactic battle just before the showdown between the protagonist and antagonist. In the Belgariad, it's the Battle of Thull Mardu. In the Elenium, it's the siege of Chyrellos. Last, the endings have similar elements. The heroes are both married at the end, and the sorceress characters are either married or find true love.
	Authors are generally supposed to be creative. However, some authors will use the same elements over and over if they end up working. Stephen King writes a lot of horror. Most of John Grisham's novels are courtroom dramas. Then, there is David Eddings, author of both these series, and one of fantasy's best-selling authors. Though all epic fantasy stories contains some of the same elements, the authors put their own creative touches into them. The Belgariad and Elenium were both penned by Eddings, and are distinct and separate stories, but Eddings uses many of the same elements, showing that a reader can tell when the same author has written two things that are different.
	Similarities in separate works from the same author are good, because it gives the reader something familiar. They can identify it, which gives the author a certain amount of satisfaction. If an author can successfully parallel two different stories, yet keep them separate, he will have a very good career. The author gets something, the reader gets something, and everyone wins.
