The similarities between The Belgariad and the Elenium are incredibly close. First, the plot has many similar events. The quest itself is a similarity, but both objects of the quest are jewels of untold power. Both quests also have ticking clocks. In the Belgariad, they have to get the Orb of Aldur back to Riva by Princess Ce'Nedra's sixteenth birthday. In the Elenium, the heroes must get Bhelliom to Queen Ehlana within twelve months to cure her of her poisoning. The ends of the stories result in the heroes becoming royalty. Second, the basic ideas for characters are similar. There is a female sorcerer present in both stories, as well as a thief character. There is a character in both stories that is the "strongman" of the group, and both main villains are gods. Third, the society is similar. Both are based on the Middle Ages, though they are noticeably more advanced. There is also some form of magic present in these societies.
	There are at least as many differences as there are simliarities, however. For example, the plot has its divergences. The quest in the Belgariad is a chase, while in the Elenium the heroes search for a hidden place. The hero in the Belgariad is unaware of the quest's time frame, while the hero of the Elenium knows about it from the beginning. In the Belgariad, the hero is an adolescent while in the Elenium the hero is approaching middle age. The Belgariad's thief is in his thirties, while the Elenium's thief is a ten year old boy. There is also a Jungian father figure archetype in the Belgariad with Belgarath the Sorcerer, but the Elenium has no father figure. Last, the societies have their differences as well. The evil culture of Angarak is well-organized. They are composed of several different countries that worship one evil god. They have their own "gestapo" type force that handles human sacrifices, and a disciplined spying agency. The evil Zemoch society in the Elenium is one country, and they rely on more primitive methods. The continent which is simply called "The West" in the Belgariad houses many different races. In the Elenium, everyone on the continent of Eosia is of the same race.
