	Looking in depth at Meursault’s sexual relationships the reader will find much different ideals. Meursault rekindles an old relationship with a previous coworker, Maria. Maria is very much in love with Meursault and although he does not seem to be as intensely dedicated to her as she is to him, he is for the moment completely invested into the relationship. There is a moment in The Strange where Maria offers to marry Meursault and he explains, “that it had no importance really, but, if it would give her pleasure, we could get married right away. I pointed out that, anyhow, the suggestion came from her; as for me, I'd merely said, "Yes."”. Meursault sees no point in marriage, but he sees no reason not to be married as well. Despite marriage being a huge commitment, Meursault gives no deep thought to the manor. He does not worry about the future, or whether or not things will work out. He is like a leaf, whichever way the wind blows he follows suit. Most people who hear of such a brash decision driven by such careless reasoning might be alarm, but why does his reasoning stand out so easily. Mathew H. Bowker weigh in, “Meursault may be considered taboo because he trespasses on the sacred and profane territories of moral life demarcated by the ideals of freedom.” Meursault seems to possess a truer form freedom than collective people are comfortable with. Meursault is much closer to his natural instincts than the majority of people in the general population. His response is not filtered through a web of ethic and moralistic collective consensus. As the Myth of Sisyphus puts it, “He has the moral code of his likes and dislikes.” He gives an honest opinion on marriage as odd as his response sounds.
	When you compare both protagonists, the reader may come to find in a monogamist relationship Clamence knows exactly what he wants, what he is looking for, what he does not want. He has had many women and has broken this game of conquest down to a complete science. He is there for a particular thing Whereas Meursault feels his way through relationships. He is driven by sensation. He does not manipulate women; he is always transparent with Marie no matter how blunt and insensitive his opinions may seem. When Marie speaks of marriage, Meursault has no problem being tied down to a single person forever to make Marie happy. By comparison, nothing could be worse for Clamence’s Don Juan lifestyle than to be confined to one single woman. As Camus states, “this life gratifies his every wish and nothing is worse than losing it.” Unlike most people who must take in the good and the bad in a relationship, Clamence is there only for the metaphorical good.
