Jean-Baptist Clamence demonstrates an excellent example of a man lacking ethics and morals. Throughout The Fall Clamence tells a story of his days in Paris as a lawyer committing selfless acts out of generosity, but as the story goes on, the reader learns these selfless acts are in the name of personal gain. He does not commit these acts out of generosity but rather does these good deeds, such as helping the blind across the street and accepting the cases of widows and orphans free of charge, just so he may be seen doing so. Clamence carries a sense of superiority among others and this is evident when speaking of himself as he describes various situations.  Although he appears to be a decent person who helps wherever he can, his reasons for doing so differ from most other people. This clearly is evidence of a lack of ethics and morals and shows his isolation from society views.

Clamence begins his story in Paris where he is a successful lawyer. He accepts pro bono cases for widows and orphans and gloats about giving money to the poor. Clamence brags that he tries to be the first to lend a hand to blind people and help them safely across the street.  Afterword he tips his hat to the blind citizen like an actor taking a bow. But who is this bow for?  The blind man is clearly unable to see it. This bow is for his audience. He does not help this person for the sake of making sure they are safe, but for the selfish desire to feel above others.  Emily Holman defines selfishness as, “Devoted to or concerned with one’s own advantage or welfare to the exclusion of regard for another.” Going by Holman’s definition Clamence clearly valued his appearance of doing the right thing over the blind person’s actual safety which in itself is indeed selfish and amoral.

In Clamence’s conquest to dominate all things, he treats monogamous relationships like a sport and once he dominates the women completely, he loses interest. He has no intension on having an actual relationship or loving these people; he explains in this quote, “I looked merely for objects of pleasure and conquest”. This behavior is explained in The Myth of Sisyphus as Don Juanism, the desire to conquer many women sexually, A man like this fears to settle down and Thorley enjoys the beginning of relationships. 

Losing this part of his life is something Clamence would avoid at all costs as he very much enjoys the act of getting women to give themselves over wholly.  

So far all, of Clamence views and actions show what a mental state he is in. 

He does not care for these people he interacts with in the story, demonstrating at every turn his lack of ethics and morals. He is indeed the absurd man. The absurd man is drawn to rebellion and conquest because they bring out humanity's fullest potential.

For, they are props in a play Clamence is acting in.
