	The climax is set in motion in both of these novels by a death. In The Stranger Meursault is dragged in to a confrontation on the beach by Meursault’s hot headed compadre Raymond, who is currently engaged in a feud with a pair of Arab men who are related to Raymond’s Ex-mistress. This confrontation escalates to the moment Meursault ends up shooting one of the Arabs dead. He shoots him once and incapacitates him than shoots the Arab four additional times for no apparent reason. It is very irrational behavior and something that’s only capable of being committed by a person lacking any ethical or moral reasoning. In addition, it shows a serious detachment from human society. This behavior embodies his absurd state of mind. Why shoot him four additional times? Meursault can give no explanation in his absurd mind either way it amounts to the same thing. It is meaningless whether he shoots or does not shoot. It all amounts to the same thing to him. This action highlights his overall indifference and detachment from the gravity of the situation. In the Myth of Sisyphus it states, “All systems of morality are based on the idea that an action has consequence that legitimize or cancel it.” Lacking this morality Meursault simply follows his instincts and continues to shoot this man who is no more a threat.
	In Clamence’s tale he does not commit a murder, but rather fails to intervene in a voluntary suicide. Clamence is most certainly in a position to help the young lady, but refuses to risk his life for lack of any personal gain. There is no audience for him to play to, so the actor will not play his part. He lets the young lady continue the grim task of ending her existence, but this is where the character Clamence becomes aware of his ludicrous hypocrisy. As Emily Holman notes, “his selfishness is a relatively recent development. The seeds are first sown when he hears a women fall into the water and does not move to help.” Clamence has always tried to convince himself and the people watching that he came to people’s aid on their behalf. This realization turns out to be more than he can handle and he begins to see the absurd in everything he does. 
Meursault differs drastically in the reasoning area. It is the main difference on how the absurd evolves in these two novels. Meursault does not struggle with absurd explanations on why or why not he chooses to do something. Therefor he has no regrets. Even when Meursault’s absurd interactions act as a vehicle to carry him to his death, his conscience and absurdist views remain intact. In contrast Clamence is just beginning to see thing for what they are and it is the equivalent of an atom bomb going off in his life. After his revelation he begins actively tearing his life down trying to account for his selfish behavior as he states, “I longed to be forgotten in order to complain to complain to myself.” In that statement the reader sees that although he is aware of his hypocrisy he is not going to change. He simply repackages his absurd roll to a Marty who sacrifices himself for a greater cause. To warn people not go down the same path that he has, and he is aware of this hypocrisy as he says in this quote, “ too many people now climb onto the cross merely to be seen from a greater distance, even if they have to trample somewhat on the one who has been there so long.” He gives the perfect definition to the behavior he is currently engaged in which in turn clues the readers in to the fact that he in fact has not learned from his mistakes, and in turn is condemned to spend the rest of his life lost in regret.
