	Although Meursault separates himself from most of the larger commonwealth, he does not seem to be aware of his isolation from mainstream views. He seems to be genuinely surprised when other people in The Stranger cannot seem to relate to something he says or something he does. On the other hand Clamence is totally aware of how people receive him and he strives to project a particular elitist image. Someone above others as he explains in this quote, “the only place I can really live. Yes, I never felt comfortable except in lofty places. Even in the details of daily life, I needed to feel above.” So everything Clamence does is to promote this image of a self-righteous man, kind and giving, but later finds the motivation to be for very selfish reasons.
	In The Fall, Clamence is a successful lawyer in Paris. He accepts widows and orphan cases free of charge and gives to the poor regularly. He helps blind people safely across the street and once he has finished he bows and tips his hat. The blind person clearly cannot see this so who is this show for? It is clearly for his audience. Like an actor taking a bow he uses the blind person selfishly to puff up his self-righteous image. As Emily Holman suggest, “He is devoted to or concerned with one’s own advantage or welfare to the exclusion of regard for another.” In this example Clamence does not truly care for the blind man’s safety, but sees it as an opportunity to show off. On the contrary Clamence does not recognize this immediately. He conjures counterfeit reasoning’s behind all of his selfless acts, “believe me, Cher monsieur, this is achieving more than the vulgar ambitious man and rising to that supreme summit where virtue is its own reward.” Later on he finds this is not the case and it leads to his undoing. Clamence becomes embarrassed to become alert to the hypocrisy behind all his actions. By comparison Meursault also lives selfishly invested in self-interest, but does not hide behind false reasoning. Not only is Meursault not afraid to indulge in what he wants at any particular moment, but he also feels no need to justify it. He has no alternative motive. His prime objectives are always on display for all to see.
	When dealing with monogamist relationships these to protagonist differ greatly on the absurd spectrum. Clamence goal in these relationships is to dominate his partner completely. Once he has the women solely dedicated to him he quickly losses interest. For he does not look for lasting relationship, in that short space of time he makes these relationships come to life and die, never has the absurd been put on display so well. As he explains, “I looked merely for objects of pleasure and conquest.” This type of behavior is described by Albert Camus as Don jaunism, the desire in a man, to have sex with many different female partners. Although Clamence has many partners, he gives his all emotionally to each individual relationship, but does not love these women. As Camus explains, “If it were to be sufficient to love, things would be too easy. The more one love, the stronger the absurd grows…”. This does not mean he does not give himself wholly to these women. For the short amount of time he spends in these relationships he is dedicated and emotionally invested completely. Which ultimately is the whole point, to experience everything that a relationship can offer, and when he has seen all there is to see he moves on.
