If you are planning on visiting Bensonhurt, Brooklyn, you will not have a difficult time finding it! Public transportation is very accessible and is one of the most popular forms of transportation in New York City. Bensonhurt is a fairly urban neighborhood, so you will still feel as if you are in New York City. During your visit, be prepared to see the various Asian stores all around. Over the past two decades, Bensonhurt has received an influx of Asian inhabitants. Because of this, you will see an Asian-owned store at least every block as you are walking. Most popular are supermarkets and laundromats. Coincidentally, these businesses are very popular among local residents, as quality of food in the supermarkets are superb, the prices are much cheaper, and finally yet importantly, it is very convenient. Just nearby where I am, there are four Asian supermarkets within two minutes of walking distance from each other. This just adds to the convenience of accessing grocery. I’m not saying Bensonhurst is purely populated by Asian inhabitants, though. It is quite diverse all around, with immigrants and their first-generation and second-generation American children here. Most of the large and popular businesses in the local area are Asian owned. In addition to these Asian owned businesses, there is also a recently renovated park nearby, which has around ten basketball courts, a large field for soccer or baseball, four handball courts, swings, a playground for kids, and even a water fountain for kids to enjoy water in the summer. Since we are in New York City, of course the parks are very diverse. You will see all sorts of diversity here, able to play and get along well. In this neighborhood, there aren’t many large corporate buildings. The only buildings you’d find are ones for co-op living, or condominium apartments. The majority of living spaces here are two-family houses though. Most of the people are quite nice, however, very noisy. Every day, you’d hear cars blasting their music as they drive by your house, or constantly flooring the gas on their cars which will wake you up in the morning. If you are planning on visiting during night time, you should be on your guard. This neighborhood is fairly safe, but people are unpredictable. You may run into people who want to start trouble for no reason, bullies and thieves. I myself have been bullied in this neighborhood in the past via physical assault, but this was many years ago. Another recent incident involved package stealing. Although a common thing, there are package thieves in this neighborhood. Last but not least, although New York City has a fine for people not cleaning up after their dogs, people don’t follow the rules here. Every morning, you will see at least one dog waste on your way to the train station, or on your way to the supermarket. My biggest pet peeve is dog waste on the floor everywhere I go in this neighborhood. Be careful and keep your shoes clean! 
