I live in a typical suburb area in a small southern town in Tennessee. It's a connecting street between two state highways, so we get a bit more traffic on the street than I'd like, but other than that, it's a quiet neighborhood. There's not too many folks that move in and out, so I've grown used to most of the people that live in the neighborhood. People busy themselves with yard work and other daily chores for the most part. In the winter, we sled down a hill on our side street. We live in a house at the front corner of our street, so we see everyone coming and going all day long and are familiar with the cars that people drive around here. Whenever we see a strange vehicle, we tend to take note of it. Some of the neighbors go walking for exercise or just to walk their dogs. Kids play on their bikes and all that you would expect from that. We are at home a lot since we work from our house. There are four of us, Myself and my Wife, and two Daughters ages eleven and fourteen. So, I'd say that everyone else is used to us coming and going as well. We get outside and play, sometimes even in the rain. Once in a while we grill outside on our back deck and it's always a pleasant smell from the barbecue and all. It seems that there's always someone cutting grass around here and you can hear a lawn mower nearly every day from March through about October, when the grass finally stops growing. We have a lot of trees in our neighborhood as it was originally a wooded area, so there's lots of shade, but there's always a lot of leaves in the Fall as well. So, that means raking and burning the leaves on a yearly basis. I like the smell of burning leaves too, so that's always a nice sign that Fall has arrived. Lately, we've not been having much Winter to speak of, so it just feels like a long Fall. Our garage is at the back of our house, so we seldom use the front door of our house unless someone knocks on the door, which is rare. I like to work in the garage on my truck or other projects from time to time and when I have the garage doors open, it feels like I'm more tuned into the neighborhood. On holidays it is pretty quiet around here. Thanksgiving sees some of the neighborhood families visiting with people from out of town and there are extra cars parked everywhere during that time of year. It's the same at other holidays like Mother's day and Christmas. All in all, I like living here. If it weren't a through street, it would be perfect.
