I live in a small Midwestern town that is just outside the suburban areas of a major city. My immediate neighborhood, on the east side of the town, could be described as the most economically disadvantaged area of the town. Property values are low, with most houses being rented to or owned by low-income individuals. However, it is not unattractive or unpleasant. My neighbors are generally friendly people who will smile and say hello when I walk down the street. Crime rates, while slightly higher than other parts of town, are still generally low. There have been a few violent crimes in the past ten years within a few blocks of my home, including a few shootings and at least one homicide. Our next door neighbors lost their son in a shooting outside an area bar last year. Fortunately, our family has not been directly affected by crime other than having an occasional item disappear from our porch if we forget to bring it inside. In general, the town in which I live has been profoundly affected by the “opioid epidemic” that has affected many parts of the United States. Many lives have been lost due to fentanyl overdoses. Fortunately, there are many resources in my town to combat this epidemic, including several addiction rehabilitation centers and Narcan training sessions for families and friends of those affected by addiction. Despite these challenges, this town has many positive attributes. My son’s elementary school has excellent staff, from the principal to the teachers and support staff. Despite having special needs, he has not faced any bullying thus far due to the incredibly positive atmosphere of the school, and he loves it there. We have an active PTO that plans multiple events throughout the year to promote family involvement and educational progress. Because over 20% of our town’s population lives below the poverty level, the elementary school provides free breakfast and lunch to all students, so that no child ever has to go hungry. No child or family is treated as “less than” due to an inability to pay, and costs for school fees, supplies, and field trips are very reasonable. The City Council and staff have made many improvements to the appearance of our town, including repaving roads, landscaping, and refurbishing city parks. Unfortunately, most of these improvements have taken place in the center of town and on the west side, where all of the shopping areas are located and most of the traffic passes through. The east side where I live tends to be neglected, which is a point of contention for those in my neighborhood. Overall, I do enjoy living in this town. People are generally friendly, the schools are great, there are enough shopping options (both small businesses and larger retail stores) to meet my family’s needs, and our home may not be worth much, but it is comfortable and adequate. Our family has lived here for over 16 years, and we cannot imagine living anywhere else.
