My neighborhood is made up of duplex's on a cul-de-sac. They are intermittently placed and spaced so that they look like individual houses. The only difference is each is painted yellow with white porches and green metal roofs. Almost everyone, but not all, are friends with each other. We stand at the end of a not pre-decided driveway some evenings and chit chat while the small children of the neighborhood play with their toys, sidewalk chalk or fly their kites. It is very refreshing in this modern all to mechanical/computer filled world. It is rather like stepping back in time. We are surrounded by fields and trees enhanced by blue skies and white billowing clouds. The only downfall? This season, we are experiencing tornado warnings and for the first time, last night we actually heard actual tornado sirens so we had to head towards shelter. Sure enough, you would have found me in my bathtub clutching my littlest dog along with my purse and a few pillows. My big dog wanted nothing to do with the bathroom and remained in the livingroom, nervous and barking, nervous about the odd circumstances. The neighborhood was quiet except for the sound of large hail which fell all bout the ground. After the storm the road literally was steaming from the change of temperature. We went from 92 to 75 in a matter of minutes. The hail immediately melted when it hit the hot pavement. As I looked up towards the clearing skies, the sun came out and it started to rain. A double rainbow apparated. I ran into the house and grabbed my camera. Quickly snapped pictures to share with my Facebook friends and family. They were in awe, as was I. The streets remained quiet for another hour, before some people finally came home from wherever they were when the thunderstorm hit. Then it was business as usual, mom’s and children outside as dinner cooked. Such a friendly neighborhood for this gal who has recently moved form NH to NC. I adore the southern accent that people speak with. I have a two bedroom and two bath apartment, as does everyone. Though all the houses look the same on the outside, not all of the apartments are the same on the inside. Some are actually quite tiny. It doesn’t make sense to me. I love to walk along the biggest field behind where I live and mosey down to the pond that is not made for swimming. I have seen deer and in the morning you can hear the giant bullfrog singing his song. It is a fantastic place to live just forty minutes outside the city of Charlotte. Each morning is welcomed by the sound of roosters crowing from the surrounding farms. It is rather like living in a small community village of it’s own. We even have a donkey at a nearby farm that you can hear braying in the evening to let us know he is there. I was lucky to find this gem of a neighborhood.
