My neighborhood is in the smack middle of the high desert, where there is dirt, dirt and more dirt. Unless someone has actually experienced living here, they probably don’t really understand the feeling of always seeing brown , and when you do see a lawn, you know that person is spending a fortune on lawn care. When I first lived here in the 90s, houses were spread out far and wide. Now it is pretty much the same way by there are a lot of new additions. Honestly this place looks more and more like a city everyday, but supposed most places are changing the same way. Most of the time the people are very friendly, but just like any city you have your good parts and bad. In my neighborhood I'm surrounded by friendly old people iI guess it's a nicer neighborhood. The stores in this place are pretty much the store who have chains, like food for less and smart and final. If you want uscale you have to travel I never really see any whole foods or stores of that nature. The jobs that are most prominent in my city I would say not based on any official demographics, is construction. I think this is on account of this city is still not very developed, there is still a lot of wide open spaces to build. That kind of scares me, I like things the way they are now. I left a big city and I'm not keen on going back. Speaking of construction this was the field my full time job is located in, i am a drywall and T-bar instalator. What I like about my home is the different animals. People come to the high desert for many reasons, not the least of which is the stark beauty of the desert itself. High desert climate and topography have created challenging ecosystems which need protecting and which are home to different types of wildlife. Human residents of the high desert should take the time to learn about the non-human residents who share this environment in order to co-exist safely and harmoniously. My family and I have adapted very well to the wildlife. I have three children and they are all obsessed with lizards and dessert bugs, as I am writing this now they are outside trying to catch different specimens. As far as attractions goes we have some. Additionally, Victorville is a good place for families to experience the desert. It can generate a different experience. If you can, plan your visit to coincide with its annual event: the San Bernardino County Fair. The fair will enrich your visit with the right mix of activities and fun the Victorville way. Pop by the nearby Wrightwood to see the snow covered mountains and take some winter sports lessons to finish out your visit. Interested in the natural history and culture of the high desert ecosystem? The Victor Valley Museum includes geological and paleontological specimens, Native American artifacts, and historical objects that tell the story of the development of society and industry of Victorville.
