I moved to this neighborhood just when I was about to start eighth grade. It was hard for me to make friends at first, but I ended up getting close to someone who lives two houses down from me and another guy that lives on my street. Neither of them lives there anymore but the memories are still there. The same people who lived here when I first moved here are still here for the most part. My neighborhood is pretty similar to your average American suburban neighborhood. The neighborhood has a lot of two-story houses in it. Every weekend or just whenever it is warm outside I hear the kids playing outside. The neighborhood is quiet most days of the week. I have never had a problem with any of the people in the neighborhood. You are left alone in this neighborhood unless you need help. I have ordered multiple packages online and have never gotten a package snatched off of my porch. I feel like I can trust my neighbors. There is a park a minute or two away from my house. I have a lot of memories there. I have played basketball, football, and baseball there with the other guys in the neighborhood before. I also ended up with one of my worst memories there when I got elbowed in the nose playing football, but the good memories outweigh the bad. Nowadays, whenever I go to that park it is to spend time with my cousin's kids. They are much younger than me and still like playing on swings and slides and all of that type of stuff. Just the thought of going to the park makes them excited. The park makes me very nostalgic for a number of different reasons now. The neighborhood is very diverse. You will find all kinds of food nearby. In just a one mile radius, you would be able to find Chinese, Indian, Mexican, and Italian restaurants. However, nowadays, a lot of people just use apps just as GrubHub and DoorDash to get their food delivered to them. The most popular food places are the fast food shops but you can get those near pretty much any suburban neighborhood. There are also plenty of pizza places. The stores here contain everything you would ever need. There are multiple dry cleaners nearby. There is a Walgreens and a CVS on the same street as well as a Jewel-Osco grocery store, which is popular in the Midwest. Some of the stores are even diverse as there is an Indian-owned store if you are ever in the mood to make some homemade Indian food or to buy some ready-made Indian food. Overall, I am a fan of my neighborhood. Reading on social media and seeing on the news some of the horror stories other people have to go through with their neighbors makes me grateful for mine.
