Well, considering that I’ve been here for about 10 years, I guess I can share what I know. First off, I was pretty sad when I first came to my neighborhood. I came from Riverdale to Stockbridge, and I’m not going to lie, I cried, because I missed them and I loved them.. but my mom and dad wanted the best for me and my little sister, so we moved to a better location for housing, a better high school, everything was considered “not ghetto” when we moved to our new neighborhood. Throughout the years, I got used to it, and made some new friends, and some new enemies too in school. I never really truly got to know my neighbors throughout the years, except Mr. Glen and his children, as well as Dennis for a bit, both being right next to us. They have been enjoyable people that I almost can consider as family in some ways, and I truly do appreciate them. I remember when me, mom, dad, and my sister went to Mr. Glen’s wedding (They got re-married) It was really fun and enjoyable to say the least, and something I’m looking forward to someday, as I build my wealth and give my future wife the life of a Queen. When Mr. Glen’s wife, Ms. Veda, took off the white little strap on her leg and threw it, I caught it! Sadly I didn’t catch the flowers! We all danced the night away, and I really enjoyed having a good time with Marsharii, one of their daughters. I haven’t seen her since though. I hope she’s moved on to bigger and better things. The neighborhood itself is like a maze, although now I have a GPS, so I can take more time to explore it. I’ve only went so far, and that is when I’ve hung out with my friends Kason and Curtis. We all used to play video games alot, and just enjoy life to the fullest as much as we could. Sometimes I would go to the park and enjoy nature, which soothes my soul. It gives me a sense of calmness and peace these days. I’ll also bring some sticks that I bought from home depot and just practice my balance, And bring my bokken wooden sword if I can,. I have fun enjoying what I love to do. There’s also a basketball and tennis court, although I haven’t played tennis or basketball in a long time, It’s still nice to have in case I ever want to pick it back up and give it another go. My dad grew me and my best friend up on Tennis with Mr. Graves, and we’d always have a great time.. They worked us hard! But we always had fun. I guess there’s a lot of times I’ve had fun in this neighborhood, and there’s plenty of stories, but these are what really stuck out to me, and I believe that the best, is yet to come!
