My neighborhood is interesting. Most of the houses are single family, but there are a few homes that have been split into two, while still being attached, if that makes much sense. My home has a small yard in front of it and a small driveway to the left of the house. It, like most of the others, reminds you of a time not so long ago where living in the suburbs was the American dream. This dream at once seemed to embrace the people of this country, but now its pulling away. But my neighborhood and many more still remain, still call out to us and those who visit that the dream is still alive, and we are still holding onto it as best we can. The people don't feel as optomistic as they used to, the upkeep of the little yards are not what they used to be, but there is still a car or two in every driveway, still the youth play as if the world around them was the whole of their existence. The public school that has been here for almost 90 years still stands, still seems conjure a future in today's youth, while stirring up nostalgia in the older residents. The churches are few and far between, mostly empty, but the basketball courts are still full. All of the homes look different, but feel the same. There is a large supermarket called super "A" that has been owned by a large Yemni family, who are quite possible the only Arab family in the neighborhood. The vast majority of the residents are African American. The streets are wide and the kids usually play footbal, only stopping to allow the cars to pass. Most of the people in my neighborhood have been here for generations and most can tell stories of a past where everyone knew everyone. There was a karate school, but when hollywood stopped making karate kid movies, the kids stopped wanting to be the karate kid, so its now a pharmacy, because drugs make everything better, or so I've heard. There is also a small movie theatre that plays old movies at a discounted price, spared from the crowds by the youth's disdane for its lack of just release titles, but favored by the elders, who think it is a small price to pay for a night out, without the kids of course. There is a single expressway that passes through my town. Though the exit and entrance are in the town next to ours. There was once a petition to get and exit for our town. The youth supported it, while the elders refused. It seems that having the expressway in our town would ruin it, so said the elders who eventually persuaded the city council to deny the request. They are building a new highschool, and we are trying to decide on a mascott for our town. I think a cyborg with a country accent and a log cabin would be then best representation of my town. 
