My neighborhood is nearby to the college that I attend, and for that I quite enjoy living there. There are mostly apartment buildings, but a few restaurants and bars that are fun to go to and aren't terribly expensive to go to. One of the bars was just renamed, and that one is more expensive to go to but it isn't really the worst quality of service or drinks there. Most of the people are nice. They are either college kids or they are lower income, since the apartment housing isn't very expensive. There's a lot of children nearby since there is an elementary school within walking distance of my apartment. I don’t know my neighbors, but I don’t really want to. They smoke a lot of weed and so the management of my building put an air freshener unit right across from their door, which my boyfriend and I found very funny. It’s almost insulting. The buildings that are around me are usually pretty old looking but might have renovated interiors. Down the street a bit there are brand new apartments, but I don’t like them because I know the construction done on them wasn’t particularly good. They’re cheaply built but the rent is expensive, which I think is such a scam but because they’re near campus, the management of those buildings can get away with it. There is a really cheap restaurant about five minutes from where I live that serves food only on paper plates and most of what they make is microwaved. Then across from that is a gas station, which I’ve heard isn’t a very good place to work. But thanks to some money from the city, the road was redone last summer so that there’s a nice big sidewalk, lots of grass on the medians and sides of the roads, and now the area is a little nicer. But the apartment building I live in is shrouded in tress. They cut a few of them down, so there are a few stumps, but there are a lot more trees where I live than down the road. Behind my apartment complex is a tree line and then another set of apartments. I live on 42nd street, but right behind is 43rd street and that one isn’t as nice. The sidewalks are really bad and falling apart, and most of the buildings on it look shabby. There are a lot of trees on this street, but that is probably to hide what the buildings look like. Most of the crime in my area has happened at an apartment complex on that street, but then again, I can’t blame just them. There are apartments across the street from me that also have a lot of crime and a rather transient population. But I think I like where I live. I can afford it, and there’s plenty of useful amenities nearby. I especially like how the university is within walking distance and there are two bus stops so that I can get to the store and downtown with ease.
