My neighborhood is a quaint little town. It doesn't stand out from any other in South Carolina, but it's got a significant impact on the agriculture sector. Johnston is known as the Peach Capital of the World, something that the town proudly boasts about on the welcoming sign. It's primarily composed of farmland dominated by either peach trees or cattle. Houses that aren't located within the main part of town are widely spaced apart; most are two stories with either metal roofs to help combat the blazing summer heat or gray shingles. More often than not these houses aren't located near the road, but are further back allowing for the front fields to be used for animals/crops. Within the main part of town, there's a single stop light that hangs at a four way. Here is where the only stores in the entire town are located. There are three places in which you can get "fast food': Hong Kong, a small Chinese restaurant run by a single family, Fiesta Mexican Restaurant, or Gary's, a small burger chain. There used to be a pizzeria, however it closed down a short time ago. There is a very small family-owned pharmacy called Maxwell and Halford Drug; funnily enough, they're best known for the Cherry Coca-Cola they sell. There is a small, but expensive grocery store called Independent Grocers Alliance, more commonly known as IGA. While it is the only grocery store in the entire town, many individuals only stop to pick up one or two items; most prefer to travel to a Walmart in Batesburg-Leesville in order to purchase the majority of their groceries. The most popular store in the entire town is Dollar General; this store sells a vast array of everyday items and it often busy from the moment it opens until closing time! There is a very small furniture store, Possibilities Furniture & More, run by a kind woman who is well-known within the community. The store has been in Johnston for a plethora of years and even employs two movers who will deliver the purchased furniture! Attached to the furniture store building is a small pet groomers called Clark's Cuts and Kennels. They provide a multitude of services such as daycare, boarding, grooming, nail grinding, bathing, etc. Both a doctor's and veterinary practice are situated away from the primary part of town; they are both very small practices, though well-equipped to aid the residents of Johnston. There is a single elementary school called Johnston Elementary School. Once students have completed fifth grade, they must attend both middle and high school in the next town over. There are technically no parks within the town, however they are currently in the midst of creating a 2.5 acre recreational area in order to provide families with more opportunities to enjoy outings and attract more visitors/potential residents. Admittedly there isn't much to do; there are no movie theaters, bowling alleys, "hang out" spots, playgrounds for children, areas to walk pets, or a large variety of restaurants. Despite this it's a nice town, so small that you could pass in the blink of an eye without realizing!
