When asked to describe my neighborhood, I'm sure that my answer is somewhat unique. While others who respond to this are most likely homeowners with their own individual lives, my situation is a tad bit different. I consider my neighborhood to be the college campus that I stay on, and the people that live in my dormitory to be my community. I also consider the surrounding campus to be my neighborhood, albeit to a lesser extent. Despite this peculiarity, my neighborhood shares some commonalities with the more conventional ideas about a neighborhood. Just like any conventional neighborhood, the neighborhood I stay in has houses, people, stores and parks. Let us begin by discussing the "houses" that comprise my neighborhood. Before I begin to explore the houses in my neighborhood, it would be best to clarify the types of house that can be found in my neighborhood. There are three types of housing in my immediate vicinity, the apartments, the actual houses, and the dormitory houses. First, In the apartments, there are usually between 2-4 people in any given room, and there are about 4-6 rooms on each floor. The most common building type can house about 2 floors, so on average, there are 20 or so people living in each building. Second, are the actual houses that are available for anyone with an affiliation to the school to rent. Typically these are 2-4 bedroom setups that usually have alumni living in them. However, there are only a handful of these types of houses spread throughout the neighborhood, as they are less efficient. Finally, there are the typical dorm rooms which house 100's of students. In these, you have two people sharing a room with some exception, and it is the most common type of housing in my neighborhood. With housing covered we are ready to move on to the people. My school prides itself on diversity and this is reflected in the makeup of my neighborhood. There are people from all cultures and ages that live in my neighborhood. Most of the professional staff live in the houses that are placed in the neighborhood, whereas the newer students stay in the dormitory style housing and the older students stay in the apartment-style housing. The people in this neighborhood can't be done justice by simply talking about them, so it would be best to simply move on to the stores and parks in my neighborhood. Since my school really is it's own self-contained neighborhood, it has a plethora of stores and a single park. The stores are a mix of dining options that would be found in any other neighborhood, and the schools own unique brand of clothing and grocery stores. As such, anything that is needed can be found within my neighborhood's boundaries! Additionally, the park in my neighborhood is a playground for all the diverse people in my neighborhood, it is kept clean and free of crime by all the members of my neighborhood!
