The group is always available and the member does not have to wait like they would in a closed group.

Members of open ended groups are at different stages of their experiences; this can help newer members understand the processes that they are in and can look at what may be to come.
Open ended groups are efficient in assisting members with crisis.


Members do not build the same trust level as a group since some members come and go.

The progress of the group can at times be compromised due to the instability of the group—from revolving members, different stages, and lack of group cohesiveness.

The “experienced” members may try to unknowingly dominate the group and the newer members may not get out of it what they needed.


The five types of treatment groups are: support, educational, therapy, growth, and socialization groups. Each group has a distinct focus which sets it apart from the other groups. The goal of the support group is to develop or strengthen coping skills. The educational group’s goal is to educate one about his/herself or the qualities that he/she possesses. The goal of a growth group is to encourage self-improvement, or improving an aspect of him/her. A therapy group assumes that a dysfunction is present and its goal is to challenge the dysfunction. Finally, the goal of the socialization group is to help in adjustments of life or transitions. Each of the five groups has its own goal which sets it apart from the others. Some examples are as follows, but not limited to: A socialization group may focus on new mothers entering the transition into mothers, or divorcees transitioning into being single once again.  An educational group may be a group for troubled youth who have low self-esteem to discover positive attributes about themselves.  An example of a therapy group is an anger management group that helps with skills to handle anger outbursts. Domestic violence victims may attend a growth group to challenge themselves to become in control of their own lives. Lastly, a support group may consist of a group of divorcees, widowers/widows, or homeless teens where they could develop skills to cope with their situations.

Cultural competence in social work signifies being competent of cultures and diverse cultural differences. A social worker should have knowledge about the diverse populations he/she may work in. Each cultural group has its own value system and traditions. The worker who is culturally competent understands that not all people follow the worker’s value system, and that is OK. Traditions and beliefs may seem strange, but a culturally competent worker does not compare, judge, nor try to push his/her values on the client. The worker respects the fact that there is a difference and has done some research to have a better understanding of how clients of different cultural values can receive services and remain respected through their culture and belief systems.
Cultural competence is necessary in social work because the first ethical principal is to do no harm. This includes psychological harm which might occur with value conflict. All clients need to be treated with dignity and respect. A large part of that is respecting their decisions, cultural beliefs, value systems, and religious practices. Knowing about these value systems and traditions can prevent value conflict with the worker. This is why it is a good idea for the worker to do empirical research on cultures, religions that he/she is unfamiliar with. Although it is important to be aware of differences in values, beliefs, and traditions, it is important for the worker to take each family or client as an individual as to NOT group someone based on his/her knowledge of that culture, that is stereotyping. The worker must be aware, but also be careful not to categorize—or stereotype. 
