	Although the graph can appear to be very black and white—literally—there are many groups inside of these groups. The white block includes many immigrant populations such as Russian, Jewish, Hasidic Jewish, and many more. There are also pockets of Indians, Muslims, Persians and others that may be combined into the other broader categories.

	In the past years, our nation has lived through—and is living through—a housing market crisis.  Cuyahoga County has been hit hard from this crisis.  Many homes have been foreclosed creating many negative consequences for the county.  Cleveland Heights has also been affected. The affect is not as bad as some of its surrounding areas—South Euclid, East Cleveland, and Cleveland— yet is still yields an 11% vacancy rate. These vacant homes can be breeding areas for crimes as many are broken into.  They are looted for copper piping, become squat houses, and bring down the values of the surrounding homes. Half of all homes in the city are owner occupied; the other 40% are rentals. An interesting finding is that the population of Cleveland Heights is 46,121 and there are 22,465 homes. This means that there are 2.05 persons per home and 90% of the homes are occupied.  I found this information surprising, especially since there are so many families in the city.  
	The range in income in Cleveland Heights goes from millionaires to impoverished families and everything in between.  The west side of the city near Fairmont to Cedar Hill has a higher income population.  One can drive in the section of the city and admire the mansions, which scatter the Fairmount Blvd area.  Poverty levels in the city match closely with the poverty levels of the state.  The total poverty level is close to the state’s at 19.4%. The number of residents living at less than 50% of the poverty level in the city is slightly higher than the state’s.  The categories of poor from the city greatly differ from that of the state.  This is most likely from the different cultural make-up from the city and state.  Single women by far lead the way in both the city and state, but differences in age and race are present between each.  The highest group of poverty is women aged 15 years, followed again by women aged 18-24 years. This is most likely caused by younger women having children.  It is perplexing as to why 15 year old women are the highest group. The next highest group in poverty is the elderly first age 70 plus and directly followed by ages 65-70.  Poverty by race is much lower in Cleveland Heights opposed to the state for African Americans, Latinos, Racially mixed, and American Indian/Alaskan Native.  Rates of poverty are slightly higher in Cleveland Heights for whites compared to the state; almost doubled for Asian Americans compared to the state. 

Although almost 1/5 of the residents in Cleveland Heights are at the poverty level or below, public assistance is dealt from the county level. Cuyahoga County Children and Family Services on Payne Ave will cover child care, medical and cash assistance while the CFS on Southgate Rd is where Cleveland Heights residents can apply for food assistance, job assistance and unemployment insurance. The Ohio Department of Jobs and Family Services works through both offices.  Cleveland Heights falls under the state and county for social services.  The state and county both offer a variety of services, which many residents are unaware of.  Cleveland Heights does not offer public assistance, but there are many other programs residents can use.
