If the deported father/mother makes it through the narco trafficers, the desert, and makes it past Border Patrol, he/ she still has the threat of being stopped at any time and being shredded from their family again.  However, if they are stopped again, they will spend the two years in prison—which cost $116 per day—before they are deported again with no chance of ever coming back to the US legally. They live in fear on a daily basis.  Their children live in fear of losing their parent.  The children endure psychological damage from the traumas and fears of the situation.

	As one can see there is a large circle of dilemmas in the laws.  The North American Free Trade Agreement was signed in the 90’s. Three million Mexican farm workers were displaced from their lands by their government. US subsidized corn flooded the Mexican market. This negatively affected millions.  The displaced people moved to Mexico City and other cities.  One of the externalities of NAFTA is the rise in laborers attempting to and crossing the border into the US to make a living and many for sheer survival.  It is no coincidence that one of the largest cities in the world is in a country that borders the US, México City.
	When the US economy was doing well, immigration was not a top priority.  Now that the economy took a plunge around 2008, migrant farm workers and laborers have become the scapegoat, while large corporations and banks have profited from and been a large player in the recession.  Large corporations—like Corrections Corporation of America—benefit from the scapegoats as hundreds of thousands of undocumented immigrants are housed in their facilities each year.  These organizations spend millions of dollars lobbying Congress, who in turn mandated 34,000 beds be filled by these scapegoats each night.  
	As millions of children live in fear of losing their parent, and hundreds of thousands of children already have, our elected officials have refused to vote on a simple bill that has passed through the Senate eight months ago.  The reason that they refuse to vote is one excuse after another.  More people have been deported under President Obama than any other president.  While the immigration reform bill collects dust waiting to be voted on, over 1,000 people are still deported each day.  According to ICE reports, almost a quarter of them leave behind US citizen children.
	Any person who is in the US and is not current in their immigration paperwork, faces a labyrinth of decisions. For example, a mother and father of four children have blended status.  The father and three children are US citizens and the mother crossed the border with her young child.  The mother cannot apply for residency while she is in the US, she must leave to her country of origin—let’s say Honduras—to apply for a visa to be with her husband and children.  She never does it because if she does, she will be under the ten year bar.  Her children and husband need her for the functioning of the family.  She cannot leave the US for ten years while her husband raises their children alone.  She decides to remain below the radar and stay with her family.  What if her husband starts to abuse her? Will she report the abuse? No, because if she does, her immigration status will be discovered and she will be deported and separated from her children.  Let’s say for this example that her husband does not beat her though.  Rather, she is on her way to get her children from school one day and gets pulled over for a tail light being out.  The officer cannot identify her and she is taken into custody and turned over to ICE.
