In Carla’s case alternative methods mat include behavior modification or cognitive modification plans. (See above questions).
Make Plans: The immediate plan, which should alleviate negativities to stabilize emotions, is to contact close family members and begin to utilize her familial support system. Attend group therapy session at the Rape Crisis Center. Following, Carla will begin to attend her adult fellowship group—no need to discuss her incident unless she wants to. She is advised to attend a movie to help her with coping skills. Carla is to check back with crisis interventionist after a few days since her emotional state is poor, she may need to be walked through her recovery at this stage. However, this may not be the case. Regular visits with interventionist will dictate goals beyond the immediate plan. Her long-term goal is to cope with emotions and return to normal activities which she was engaged in prior to the rape.

Carla will review a contract of goals—returning to normal activities, lowering depression level and obtain a higher level of social interaction. She will also have partook in the process of deciding strategies and support systems that she feels will help her best—Rape Crisis Center, church fellowship group, family and friends. Carla reviews this plan and states that she is committed to engaging in it. Interventionist reviews it for safety and explains confidentiality. Interventionist in turn commits to Carla and her recovery via the contract of goals.


There are several differences between an open group and a closed group. The amount of time, admission of new members, and duration of the group—set amount of sessions or timeframe—are the main differences.  An open group is a group that takes new members, may not have a timeframe to complete sessions, and where a member can come and go as they please. An open group has members from all different stages or levels.
 A closed group will have a set amount of sessions, will begin and end with the same members, and will not accept new members once it has begun. The requirements to be in the closed group may be stricter than that of an open group. For example, a military group of members who have just returned from the war/s are part of a mandatory two week closed group on transitioning back from a combat zone. They will begin this group together and complete the required sessions together. New members will not join half way through, but be advised to start the next group. This is an example of a closed group. An example of an open group would be after the military member has been discharged and he/she has found it difficult to transition into civilian life. He/she may go to a group at the local VFW, which may have members from as far back as WWII. The member can go to the group for as long as he/she desires. There is not a set pace. The group meets once a week since WWI. This is an example of an open group. The member does not have to stay for a specific duration of time. The members do not begin and end the session together. Any veteran can be present whether they fought in Pacific, Europe, Somalia, Vietnam, Korea, Nicaragua, Gulf, IraqI, Iraq2, Enduring Freedom, or they did not fight anywhere at all, but have a hard time transitioning.
