Cleveland Heights is located in Cuyahoga County on the east side of Cleveland.  It borders Cleveland, East Cleveland, South Euclid, University Heights and Shaker Heights.  A visionary named Patrick Calhoun had an idea to create “garden suburbs”.  He wanted to create an area where city workers/ elites could live in residential tranquility yet work downtown.  He had the vision and John D. Rockefeller had the funding. Cleveland Heights was born as a village in 1903. Many advances were taking place in Cleveland and along with them were modes of transportation With the implementation of railcars, Cleveland Heights’ population started to grow.  In 1921 Cleveland Heights was officially pronounced as a city.
Public service institutions were starting to be incorporated. The first school house is still standing today at the corner of Superior and Euclid Heights Blvd. It is much smaller than its neighboring homes.  As the city started growing so did its shops and consumer districts.  Coventry Rd between Euclid Heights Blvd. and Mayfield and the shops in the Cedar and Lee area are still thriving business areas today. The city has primarily always been a residential city. The parks have always been an important part of the city. In the 1930s John D. Rockefeller donated the Forest Hill Park to the city. Cain Park is another large park between Lee Rd and Taylor Rd along Superior Ave. This park is popular with sledders in the winter and holds an amphitheater, which many musicians play at in the summer.  

The social history of the city has gone through many changes.  Initially the city was compromised of whites who had been born in the area.  It is important to note that whites who were born in the area and whites who had immigrated or migrated were not of the same class.  During this time, many European immigrants were flocking to the industrialized cities looking for work and to live the American Dream. Migrants were also flocking from rural areas in Ohio and surrounding states.  African Americans from the south were also coming to industrialized cities in the Great Migration.  The migrants and immigrants were not prominent early settlers in Cleveland Heights although they did exist on a small scale.  Its residents were mostly of Cleveland’s elite classes. However, this would soon change.
1910-1940 had a surge in the population.   The population grew from 3000- 50,000.   Many Jewish residents began to settle in the areas of Cedar and Taylor in the 20’s. Even with this surge in the population, the percentage of African American residents was barely on the chart at less than 1%.  This would change in the 1960s with new federal integration laws.  Cleveland Heights started to become a racially integrated city.  Many pockets of immigrants began to flourish throughout the city, creating a diverse community which, is still flourishing today.

	Recently, Cleveland Heights was the most diverse city in Ohio.  Although it does not currently hold the title it is still a diverse community.  According to the 2010 US census, Cleveland Heights has a total population of 46,121 residents. Below is a chart that breaks down the cultural content, but in a broad sense. 
