	She is whisked away to a prison usually over 100 miles from her home where she spends close to 2 months before she is deported to Honduras.  Now she is in Honduras.  Her husband and children are in the US.  Does her family all relocate to Honduras? Or does she try to cross the US- México border?  Those are her only two choices as there is no legal avenue for her to return to the US to be with her family.  At first she is happy to see family members that she hasn’t seen in years.  Her brother passed away two years prior, but she was afraid to go to his funeral because she did not want to risk not being able to return to her family and children.  She visits his grave for the first time.  After a few days, the reality sets in.  She cannot find work.  The average wage is 65 USD per week in a factory working six days a week, ten hour shifts.  She tries to get things ready for her family to come to Honduras.  Her children miss her, but don’t want to leave their schools and friends.  They can speak Spanish, but cannot read and write it.  The mother tries to get the children into schools, but since they are US citizens, they need extra documentation that she cannot provide.  The parents decide to remain separate for a while so the children can finish out the school year.
Time goes by and the mother cannot make enough money to survive.  The father is working two jobs in the US to be able to help her.  The children are raising themselves while the father is working. Grades begin to suffer. The father and mother begin to argue.  They decide that the mother must cross the border to be with the family.  
	This scenario plays over and over.  Many families only want to be together.  The next issue is if they attempt to reunite with their families, they are subject to re-entry after deportation and face a two-year prison sentence.  This threat lasts the remainder of the time they are in the US weather its one year or 20 years or 100 years.  They simply have to be stopped by a police officer in a car and they will go to prison.  Where is the relief and where is the avenue for legality?  There are not enough visas for farm workers and laborers that there is a demand for.  A poor person cannot come to the US and work.  Many people say they should wait their turn in line or do it the right way.  What they do not understand is that there is no right way or line for them to wait in.  Water and electricity both take the paths of least resistance. 

	The solution is not simple nor intricate.  Lift the ten year bar for applying for a visa.  Allow families to be together.  Make a line for the poor laborers and workers to stand in so that they don’t come by unauthorized ways.  Lastly, immigration is not a crime.  The human species has been doing it since the caveman times.  Nomadic tribes still exist in the world.  Stop the criminalization of immigration.  Men and women who do nothing but attempt to be with their families or flee from corruption and injustices need not be imprisoned.  Immigration is a global issue, as we are in the age of globalization.  The United States sets the bar for many world issues.  We can set the bar at a humane level when it comes to migrant workers.  Immigration is an externality of our capitalistic society.  We as a nation need to either accept it as so, or change the way in which we do things.  
