For examples, in class we discussed how Puerto Rican males are raised to brag about sexual experiences with women and to “conquest” as many as possible. This in no way means that all Puerto Rican men follow this tradition, nor that the majority do. Many Puerto Rican men are strict Catholics and follow the tradition of no sex before marriage. However, many do not. The worker needs to be aware, but not assume. Per class panel, the African American community has traditional and contemporary members. Many spank their children. This no way signifies that a worker needs to place an African American family into a traditional or contemporary category, nor that all African Americans physically discipline their children. The worker needs to ensure that he/she takes each client or case for the individual circumstances that each holds.

Three examples of why cultural competence is necessary in social work from the class panels are: If working with a Korean client, the worker should understand that in the Korean culture it is rude to look into someone’s eyes. Touch between sexes is frowned upon. Korean families also place a high value on education. If the worker was speaking with a student who was stressed about grades, he/she should recognize that because of the high value placed on education this issue is serious and should not be dismissed lightly. Once again this does not mean that all Korean families place a high value on education. The worker should once again be aware, but not assume.
When working with a client who is gay or a lesbian, the worker should recognize that there are stages that the client goes through in his/her identity formation. There are six stages, but not all people make it through all six. Many gay and lesbians have a difficult time “coming out”, but once again each client and case is different. The worker needs to recognize environmental issues and the fact that there is a process of identity formation within the gay or lesbian client.
Lastly, if a worker is working with an Asian Indian family and the daughter is fighting with her parents because she wants to date, the worker will have to recognize that in that culture, the parents choose who the daughter will marry. They also have a high value of obedience to their parents. The worker would be engaging in value conflict if he/she advised the client to go out on her own or embrace her own life. Once again, not all Asian Indian families embrace these ideas. The worker should be aware, but not assume.
