Aldous Huxley saw the massive success and was deeply influenced by the technological progress of the world in the early twentieth century. Brave New World, written in 1931, postulated a fantastical new society that might come about after Ford, a "society in which the values of scientific technology are dominant”. Huxley grabs the reader and manipulates him into the confines of the brave new world with the very opening of the book.  Immediately and harshly, Huxley sets the tone of the cold view of a laboratory, “winteriness” isolating the human autotrons laboring in their medicinal workspace. This very powerful opening scene of scientific austerity immediately begins to play with the reader’s boundaries between man and machine. Powerfully, Huxley has set the stage for the frightening conclusion of a man made assembly line making man himself. Cars are not being fabricated, humans are. And the “man” making the man is a machine himself- a cog in a mass of workers working the same, consistent job to achieve increased machinistic efficiency in producing human clones. Huxley raises Ford himself- creator of the assembly line that creates the machines in which drive the world- to Christ, the Messiah- maker of man himself.
Just as Ford “clones” cars in Huxley’s present, Huxley’s future “A.F.” utopian society clones human beings.  Mass cloning is similar to Ford’s mass production, but “applied to biology;” and it is mass cloning re-creating the conception process that is the “major instrument to social stability”.  Men and women are not used for the production of children, rather, are required to work the machines needed to carry-out the replication of pregnancy; and instead of one baby being born per egg, almost 100 babies are conceived after the nine month process. The fertilized egg spends its entire pregnancy on a conveyor belt, going through different conditions meant to replicate the pregnancy stage. However, before the babies are even conceived, their professional lives have already been determined. Predestinators decide what kind of person is needed in society and send figures to the people in charge of conditioning the children in their embryonic states. The embryos are pre-placed in strict social classes and are “machine defined” in that they are genetically modified and prepared for a specific environment to perfectly “condition the mind that judges and desires and decides” and prepare them for their unavoidable futures. For example, embryos that are predestined to work in a position where intelligence is not needed are oxygen-deprived, and those who are predestined to work in a hot or tropical climate are conditioned to “thrive on heat.”
An action that unites man and woman in “spiritual unity” and is thought of by religions such as Catholicism as the sacred purpose of intercourse, the responsibility of procreation and conception is an important aspect to both the woman and man’s nature. However, Huxley’s “new world” emphasizes how the unity between men and women is “strictly physical,” and the concept of mass cloning has entirely stripped the natural responsibility of childbirth from women. Huxley subliminal warning hints that the process of cloning has many flaws and that humanity suffers when individuals do not grow up in a unique household. Children grow up without mothers and have neither a role model nor a mother/father figure to look up to, are conditioned and trained by machines and science, and put out into their inescapable social destiny.
