 In Derrick Jensen’s book, he combines in his text both his understanding of humanity’s social and natural evolution with his personal struggles and beliefs as he tries to find answers and peace in his own life. What he tries to expose in his book is humanity’s progression towards the complete annihilation of the natural world. He explains how as civilizations develop over centuries, they continue to partake in the destruction of both natural and human history, whether it’s knowingly admitting toxic pollution into the air or eliminating tribes of people to fulfill an agenda. Though realizing the stress Jensen faces from living in such a harmful and corrupt world, he finds comfort in exploring the nature of humanity that most people don’t get the opportunity to get exposed to. Once acknowledging our past mistakes, Jensen then starts to pessimistically portray the direction that humanity is heading towards. And though he may sound pessimistic throughout the book, he concludes with rules and reforms society must accept if it wants to maintain basic survival for the future.
What is unique about Jensen’s book is the personal approach he takes in making his claims. Jensen is a man who preaches concern for both humanity and the environment, and he’s passionate about reversing the damage that has been done to the face of this planet. For a reader, sensing an author’s emotional attachment to a particular subject can help invigorate a reader’s interest. And at a time where climate change is finally becoming a “mainstream” issue where people are aware and somewhat knowledgeable towards human’s impact on the environment, Jensen’s book is a great way of getting introduced into a community of people who share an equal concern for the future of Earth. What I believe is an important lesson in Jensen’s book is how we need to acknowledge the past. Throughout history, humanity has looked into the past and recognized the mistakes they have made; however, they have not set a precedent of learning from the previous mistakes and obtaining the experience and knowledge that could potentially help even repair the mistakes made in the past. Without growing from the past, it’s inevitable that humanity will continue the repetitive violence and destruction that it has relied on to solve situations.
In concluding his book, Jensen proposes serious reforming ideas that he believes could help heal some of society’s long-lasting wounds. He addresses the negative impact Western corporations have on the international community and criticizes what modern day governments prioritize. However, I personally believe that humanity must approach its problems on a much smaller scale, and the solutions to many of our problems can be easier to achieve than one would believe. I believe that individuals must make creating healthy, sustainable, and efficient lifestyles a priority. In this modern day age of science and technology people have more opportunities to make significant lifestyle changes than ever before, from its promoting alternative energy to participating in organic and urban farming. Generations must be made aware of the most current and accurate knowledge they could receive, and then its up to individual families and people to apply these healthy lifestyles to the community which the live. Creating these progressive communities and cultures will begin to bring awareness to neighboring areas; and as the grass roots begin spread, majorities will begin to form. Once a community starts to have an overwhelmingly significant stance, it will gain political attention. From there the snowball effect will take place, and humanity will slowly start to adapt, both politically and socially, to the progressive lifestyles and promote a healthier future of humanity and Earth.
