Because the children are conditioned to fit their determined future, they are severely limited and are offered no room for improvement or advancement. This eliminates man’s search for meaning or a need for identity in the New World, and the idea of goals or striving for something is merely non-existent; rather, the citizens live a life that appears to be controlled and “perfect” and stabilized. No emotional distress, no anxiety or worries; in the novel, the characters’ mindsets are only centered on the constant need for physical stimulation and pleasure. For example, since “everyone belongs to everyone else”, casual sexual intercourse is popular, where emotional complications and commitment are merely non-existent. Life struggles and downfalls are meant to be completely avoided to ensure the happiness of all the citizens, and the World Controller wants to make sure that no citizens has any unique or personal experiences. But the fact that the people are losing these experiences is avoiding them from growing into an individual. 
When John, a member of the reservation, is introduced to the New World, he is faced with the dilemma questioning his morality. He desires love and love and compassion from Lenina; however, Lenina is only conditioned to desire physical pleasure. As he is continuously pressured and interrupted by New World citizens, he is driven to a point of insanity, eventually taking his own life at the end of the story. 
Like most utopian or dystopian stories or novels, “fiction is not really about the future; it is an indirect view of the present”. One can see how far the present world has come in a matter of centuries, and Huxley uses his novel to illustrate the perpetually changing society in which man has found himself in the middle of. To portray the amount of change that has occurred in the world more than 600 years after Ford, Huxley describes a tiny reservation, known as the Savage Reservation to the “brave citizens,” that shows the primitive nature of human beings, such as the early Native Americans. They were wearing “bright blankets, and feathers in black hair,” their “dark skins (were) shining in the heat;” and when Lenina walked onto the wide terrace on the Reservation, she was bombarded by “the noise, loud and close, of the drums”. Today, the members of the Savage Reservation would appear to exhibit abnormal behavior compared to the average citizen; but to the New World citizens, the primitive lifestyle posed as dirty and inefficient. No “brave citizen” can relate to the love, passion, and loyalty the members of the reservation portray to the community, especially their families; and religious and spiritual rituals have no meaning to them although Lenina seemed intrigued. John, a member of the reservation, is introduced to the New World, he is faced with the dilemma 
