           By 1206, Genghis Kahn realized that he had constructed a Mongol “state” as it where, and to continue this prosperity there needed to be some assembly of laws in place to preserve his kingdom. He pressed his advisor Tataungo into service to come up with a grand Yasak, or code of peace to maintain the order of the citizens. The became known as the Great Law of Genghis Kahn. Its most defining feature was the fact that it had no pretention of coming from a divine source. In keeping with Genghis’s usual form, he also subjected himself, as well as future leaders, to the law. Both of these misnomers were unheard of before. Without including all known passages of the law word for word, there are a few laws included that kept the empire united. It barred kidnapping of wives and the selling of women into marriage, this stopped a lot of the banditry and attacks out on the steppe calming generations of feuds. It set forth rules towards marriage, animal rustling, thieving, baring of weapons, adultery. It established service ages for soldiers which all further settled peace amongst a people that had a problem with inner-warring for generations. Most importantly, to the western world that now exists, the great law established the first true freedom for religions and freedom for certain services from taxation. Some say it was the defining moment of Kahn as a true political leader rather than just a warlord. This decree brought peace to even the lowest farmer, and comfort to all. Even as he lay dying he touted the need to follow this Yasak. As they travelled the world the Mongols took the Great Law with them. For nearly one hundred and fifty years it held the empire together. 
Many Mongols followed the spirituality of the Eternal Blue Sky. Today it is known as Tengrism. Genghis Kahn himself is supposed to have been polytheistic and worshiped the “sky-father” as the leader of a pantheon of gods. While Mr. Weatherford ventures a guess at what spirituality Genghis was and describes an event where Genghis and his followers craft a story about how this sky-father called upon him to be a leader to all peoples, it is truly unknown what Genghis Kahn was as far as his spirituality goes. He had tremendous contact with Christians, Buddhist and Muslims and there is no record on what, if any, the contact with these religions had on the man. It is reckoned that he remained a deist that fell spiritually under the umbrella of one of the subsets of the Asian variant of Tengrism and didn’t adapt any of the religions he conquered to his own nature. In truth, as far as his contribution to the future of all religions goes it really does not matter what he was. What does matter is his legacy of tolerance towards nearly all known religions. In the thirteenth century nearly all religions or converts could be found, unmolested, in the Mongol empire. He ensured that leaders of all religions were exempt from civic duty and taxation. He felt so strongly about the inclusiveness that he ordered it into his “Great Law”. There is some debate on whether this was to maintain peace in his own empire or if it was a point of strategy to attract those being persecuted for their religion. Whatever the reason was for his methods, Genghis Kahn will forever be known as “The Defender of Religions”.
