Ancient Egypt was similar to Mesopotamia in that both religions are polytheistic. But Egypt differs in that their Pharaohs were kings and were divine. Kingship in Egypt remained the channel through which the powers of nature flowed into the body politic to bring human endeavor to fruition, so the maintenance of nature and civilization were dependent on the kings. The rule of the king was outright. He was expected to maintain order and justice in the land, serve as a mediator between the gods, act as the commander-in-chief for the military, and be the highest judicial officer of the land. They believed that temples were where gods resided. It was a place for men to go and communicate with the gods. As the years went along, tombs were added to the temples to honor their priests. The priests were in charge of taking care of the gods and attending to their needs. 
Their religion revolved around the concept of Maat. Maat is the order and essence of existence. It expresses the Egyptian belief that the universe is unchanging, and that all opposites hold each other in equilibrium. Individuals were responsible for the maintenance of order. The kings were responsible for upholding Maat through the gods, but their people shared the same responsibility. A man’s success in life possesses a quality and sets off a force because of his attunement to society and nature.  They believed that punishments were the business of gods, and that divine vengeance acted through the maintenance of Maat. They believed that the satisfaction achieved after completing a generous act was a direct consequence of being in harmony with the Maat. 
The Egyptians believed in the afterlife, and put a lot of their time into preparing for life in it. The Book of the Dead consisted of negative confessions for the deceased to recite to their gods to get them into the afterlife. They believed that the body would have to stay intact for the souls to function appropriately, which lead to the embalming of the dead. At funeral services, the priests would attempt to wake up the deceased person. If they were unable to, the body would be washed and placed inside a coffin. The body would be wrapped in bandages, and the inside of the coffin would be filled with jewelry, their belongings, and the Book of the Dead.
The identification of kings and god in Egypt was absolute in Egypt, since the Pharaoh is a real god who has total power over life, justice, fertility, and the afterlife. In Mesopotamia, there was a difference between the human king and the gods who were kings. The human king was elected or chosen by the gods in accordance to their plans, thus, the gods who are kings have the actual power, and the human kings are servants. The focus of power was directed toward the Pharaoh in Egypt, and to the gods who were kings in Mesopotamia. They both included the adoption of the human king as the son of the gods, made the human king the servant of the gods, and recognized that the real power of the universe rests in the hands of the gods who were kings and not the human kings.
