	According to Barchart.com, Google is one of the most financially successful companies in the world. Figure 1 shows the net revenue in 2014 was $66 billion, which was an increase from $55.5 billion in 2013. The EPS in 2014 was $6.27, which was an increase from $6.00 in 2013. Their cost of goods increased from $22 billion to $25.7 billion from 2013 to 2014. Gross profit increased from $33.5 billion to $40.3 billion from 2013 to 2014. Net income increased slightly from $13.3 billion to $13.9 billion from 2013 to 2014.
	Google's future performance is trending in the right direction if they increase online advertising in the telecommunications arena. They are already increasing their market share in online advertising in both mobile and video. There is more reason to be optimistic about their online advertising after Google allowed famed tracking company Nielsen Co. to measure views on ads run through its videos. Mobile is where all internet companies should look to make their money, and Google is in the best position to take advantage of this. If Google goes further into apps for mobile phones, Google could increase their revenue exponentially.
The technology industry is extremely fluid due to the exponential rate of advancements being made in this field.  Companies who have had competitive advantages in the past can quickly lose them and even go out of business if they do not closely monitor the constantly evolving technology of their field.  Google, like most tech companies, is constantly evolving and improving their products as well as moving into new markets in order to eliminate threats and take advantage of new opportunities.
Google’s biggest strength, its search engine, has two main competitors, Microsoft Bing and Yahoo!. As can be seen in Figure 2 Google holds the majority of the market share for search engines in the United States followed by Bing and then Yahoo!.

One factor that may contribute to Google’s success is that they have more pages indexed then their competitors, which can lead to more useful search results.  Google has roughly 23 billion pages indexed, followed by Yahoo! with 20 billion, and finally Bing with 17 billion. As you can see in Figure 2, this alone does not determine search engine success or failure since Bing has fewer pages indexed yet controls nearly double the market share of Yahoo!.
	The percentage of revenue growth amongst the companies indicates that Google will not be losing its market share any time soon and that Yahoo! may be on its way out. Google revenue grew 19% in the past year, compared to Microsoft’s 12% and finally Yahoo! with less than 1% of revenue growth.  It is, however, difficult to sort through these numbers for several reasons.  Out of Microsoft’s nearly $94 billion in revenue, about $3.2 billion came from its online services department, which left that department with a net income of -1.8 billion, compared to Yahoo! who made about 1.8 billion in net income.  Another issue is that although Google’s main income generator is their search engine, revenue from companies they own such as YouTube and Motorola is factored into Google’s revenue.
