As Henry Miller once said, we must give life meaning, because of the obvious fact that life has no meaning. Louis P. Pojman claims that religion gives meaning to life, because the world of the theist is far more better and satisfying than the world of an atheist, and that it would be good to gamble on God's existence; however I believe that his claim is narrow-minded, can be harmful to society, and that something has to be highly probable for it to be a good bet. I will be giving my thoughts on why we should be creating our own meaning, explain how this belief can be harmful to the mind, and I will then critique the Pascalean argument that theism is a good bet. I will then address the objection that you should seek truth by any means possible, even at the risk of error.
	The idea came to Pojman when he was having a discussion with a fellow student about the significance of religion. The other student argues that it was more important to be free than have a meaning to life, and that religion provides a meaning to life, but it does not allow humans to be free. Pojman decides to defend religion against these two theses and try to show that meaning and autonomy are both important ingredients for an ideal existence. Pojman's eight premises state that through theism: (1)  we have a satisfying explanation of the origin of the universe; (2) good will conquer over evil; (3) we understand that God loves and cares for us, and that this love for us motivates us to live a morally good life; (4) we have an answer to why we should be morally good; (5) we know that there is no luck, but only Cosmic Justice; (6) everyone is equal; (7) we gain grace and forgiveness for all that we have done; and (8) we know there is life after death. 
	Pojman ends his essay with Pascal's Wager. Pascal's Wager is an argument created by Blaise Pascal that involves taking the steps to believe in God. He thinks that if you believe in God and end up right, you gain eternal bliss, but if you are wrong, you do not make a difference anyway. He also thinks that if you do not believe in God and end up wrong, you would suffer eternal misery, while if you are right, you do not make a difference anyway. Through rationalism, Pascal concludes that God has the maximum expected utility, or the so that rationality requires you to wager for God. He also asserts that reason cannot decide anything in this argument. He believes that you either believe in God or not.
	You can find meaning, but it does not have to be found through religion. One of the hardest questions to contemplate in life is if there is any meaning to life. The answer is simply to create your own meaning. We get up in the morning, because it is our duty, not because we have to gain God's approval. As Marcus Aurelius pointed out in his reflections, you were not born only to please yourself, but to exert your faculties. The sparrows, ants, spiders, and bees outside are not sitting around worried about whether there is a deity or not. The universe is a good enough gift that we should not need a satisfying explanation. With how vast the universe is, there cannot be just one absolute meaning.
