In the year 2000, Google as a company had many milestones. According to Google’s website, in May of 2000, Google won the Webby Awards for both Technical Achievement and the People’s Voice Award. May was also the month that Google.com was launched in 10+ language’s worldwide. In September, the New York office of Google was started in a Starbuck’s, later moving into an office and currently employing over 4,000 employees. They also launched Google.com in more languages, bringing the total to fifteen. Google AdWords was launched in October, and Google Toolbar was launched in December. AdWords is a self-service advertisement program for advertisers and Toolbar allowed a person to search using the Google engine directly from the toolbar of the browser.
Through the years, Google.com continued to expand, acquiring different services and programs, and launching their own. Google bought popular services like Picasa to help with their blog and Android in 2005. In the past few years, Google has ventured past being just a search engine, like it was back in 2000. Google Images was launched in 2001, and Gmail in 2004. Just a few months after Gmail, Google Maps was released to the public. Soon after its desktop release, the mobile version of Google Maps was launched. This marked one of Google first journey into the mobile industry, soon to become a huge competitor to giant mobile company Apple. One of Google’s biggest successes was the purchase of YouTube, a video streaming and sharing website, in 2006. Google is more than just a search engine company. Over the years and through purchases and work, Google gained a foothold in almost every technological field, from online banking with Google Wallet, to emails with Gmail, to development with Google Developers.

According to the Google website, Larry Page and Sergey Brin both created Google together in 1998 while pursuing degrees at Stanford University. Larry Page is currently the CEO and is responsible for Google's day-to-day-operations, as well as their product development and technology strategy. He was the very first CEO of Google, until 2001, to help the company become financially solvent with more than 200 employees. For the next ten years, he was promoted president of products. He earned a bachelor's degree in engineering at the University of Michigan, and a master's degree in computer science at Stanford University. At the University of Michigan College of Engineering, he is currently part of the National Advisory Committee (NAC).
	According to Google.com, Sergey Brin now directs special projects. He was previously president of technology for ten years. He earned a bachelor's degree with honors in mathematics and computer science at the University of Maryland at College Park, and earned a master's degree in computer science at Stanford University. He is serving as a member of the National Academy of Engineering, and has released many academic papers.
	According to Google.com, Eric Schmidt is currently the executive chairman. He is responsible for all external operations at Google, including building business partnerships, government outreach, and advising leadership on business and policy issues. He was previously the CEO for ten years, and the company diversified its product line under his watch, while sustaining a culture of innovation. Before joining Google, he had been the chairman and CEO at Novell and chief technology officer at Sun Microsystems, Inc. He had also served on the research staffs of Xerox Palo Alto Research Center, Bell Laboratories and Zilog. He earned a bachelor's degree in electrical engineering at Princeton University, and also earned a master's degree and Ph.D. in computer science at the University of California, Berkeley.
