	There were many factors that caused the Europeans to explore other parts of the world. The black plague had spread throughout the country in the 14th century, so they were desperate to find more land. It had affected them for over 100 years, and the reason it was easy for them to overtake the indigenous people of the Americas was their strong immune systems. Europeans had domesticated animals that carried diseases, so they had immunities to most diseases. The indigenous people hunted all the animals they lived near, so the Europeans were a step ahead. The main factors why the Europeans explored overseas were to expand their understanding of the world, trade spices, and compete.
	Europeans were very curious back then. They were constantly questioning, and that caused them to step outside of their comfort zone. They didn’t have the equipment that we currently have, so it was much more difficult for them to explore. They didn’t know what was out there and believed that they could have fallen off the end of the world if they went too far. It was very risky on their part, but they still felt obligated to expand the knowledge of the world they lived in. We are built-in to be curious. We now know where everything is geographically, but our curiosity has lead us to explore outer space. We built the technology needed in order for us to explore space, and the Europeans did the same to explore overseas. We will never be content with what we know.
	Europeans used spices to flavor food and make medication, so they were very valuable to them. They had originally obtained their spices from Asia, but their route had gotten cut off, so they had to find their own route. The European climate wasn’t ideal for growing spices. More spices equaled more money, which in part would increase their influence over other nations. Spices were very expensive, so whoever had the most of it would have been very wealthy.
	Europeans had to compete for things such as power and religion. The European countries were in competition with each other. They wanted all the land for themselves, and if they didn’t adjust, they would be left behind. They had wanted to spread Christianity throughout the world, since they wanted it to be the one true religion. They convinced non-Christians that they would benefit in converting, and they had no choice but to concur since they weren’t as powerful.


	Niccolo Machiavelli wrote The Prince as a guide for rulers. He dedicated it to Lorenzo de’ Medici, as he was the governor of Florence when he was in his youth, and Machiavelli wanted to receive a position under him. Italy was constantly being fought for by the French while Machiavelli was there, so he felt like they needed his help. Machiavelli believed that people should rely on themselves instead of religion.
	Italy was consisted of the city-states Florence, Milan, Venice, and Naples, and they were all in battle with each other over the control of Italy. They had been attacked many times by the French, and Machiavelli felt like it needed to change. He wanted all the city-states to be united. He maintained that all the city-states were either republics or principalities, and that principalities were the ideal system. 
