According to ImpactInterview.com, Google judges if an applicant is qualified for working at Google based on their interview questions. The interview questions are various depending on what positions are applied. In general, there are two types of questions they might ask during the interview, which are the basic questions and the open-ended questions. For basic questions, they want to test the basic knowledge and working skills. It should be easy if the applicants are prepared. For example, according to ImpactInterview.com, when applying for product manager position, the basic question they might ask is, “Say an advertiser makes $0.10 every time someone clicks on their advertisement. Only 20% of people who visit the site click on their advertisement. How many people need to visit the site for the advertiser to make $20?” This type of question only requires some basic math skills. For open-ended questions, they want to test on the logics of solving problems. For example, they might ask, “If you are the product marketing manager for Google’s Gmail product, how do you plan to market it to achieve 100 million customers in six months?” There are no right or wrong answers for this type of question.

According to their website, Google is hiring people who have undergraduate or advanced degrees. If the applicants are interested in applying any position, they will need to submit their resumes in PDF format, and transcripts (either official or unofficial) online. Some positions also require cover letters or short essays. All the documents will be reviewed by Google’s staff. If they are interested in the applicants, they will contact them to schedule a phone interview.

 	Google provides a great work environment to ensure happiness among their employees. Since Google is a large company, they provide many perks and benefits of which their employees can take advantage. Google wants to take care of each and every employee as a whole. This means that they want their employees to be healthy, whether it is physically, emotionally, financially, or socially. Furthermore, Google want their employees to focus on what is important to them both in and out of work. Google wants to provide ways to help improve the health and happiness for all their employees and, ultimately, help all their employees to reach their potential and become a better person as a result of working for Google.

        	According to Google Careers, one of the perks of working at Google is that all their employees and their family members have health coverage and retirement benefits for their employees. However, Google goes above and beyond to provide that for their employees. Google provides nurses and physicians on-site in case an employee is not feeling well. Furthermore, Google provides routine checkups for the employees. This is beneficial for all the employees because they do not need to go somewhere else for a checkup and it is all covered with the health coverage Google provides. Not only does Google provide health insurance, they also provide travel insurance for the employees and their family. Whether it is a business trip or a family vacation, Google employees are always covered with travel insurance and emergency assistance Google Careers, 2015).
