This report will present a profile of Google. The main purpose of this report is to cover two topics: to provide an overview of the company with its current standings and to discuss its potential future accomplishments to evaluate its holdings to see if this company is one in which an individual would potentially seek employment.  

	Currently, Google is known for being the number one search engine in the world and ranked one of the top companies with the best employee benefits. According to Barchart.com, Google is one of the most financially successful companies in the world. Figure 1 shows the net revenue in 2014 was $66 billion, which was an increase from $55.5 billion in 2013. The earnings per share (EPS) in 2014 was $6.27, which was an increase from $6.00 in 2013. Their cost of goods increased from $22 billion to $25.7 billion from 2013 to 2014. Gross profit increased from $33.5 billion to $40.3 billion from 2013 to 2014. Net income increased slightly from $13.3 billion to $13.9 billion from 2013 to 2014.

Google will continue to provide their customers with excellent service. Google's future performance is trending in the right direction if they increase online advertising in the telecommunications arena. They are already increasing their market share in online advertising in both, mobile and video. In addition, with their new product, the self-driving car, Google will receive attention and more customers will be interested in purchasing based on their old products that have made many of their lives easier. Google keeps their clients by providing outstanding performance and in the future, it will only get better because as technology increases, Google continues to grow and more of their products are being launched.

Google is known as the number one search engine in the world. It is known for extreme customer satisfaction and outstanding employee benefits. Google is a growing company that continues to bring out the best for their customers in order to make their lives easier to navigate and communicate with others outside the workplace or school.

        	According to Google.com, Google started as an idea under a completely different name, BackRub. BackRub was the start of something great between Larry Page and Sergey Brin. The search engine started in 1996; a year after Larry and Sergey met, and only lasted for a year. A year after BackRub, Google.com became a registered domain in the September 1997. A year later in September 1998, Google filed for incorporation in the State of California, and opened shop in the garage of Susan Wojcicki's house. Just a few months after in December, PC Magazine named Google.com as the search engine of choice of 1998. In the beginning of 1999, Google moved from the garage into an actual office space with only eight employees. In the coming months in 1999, Google expanded by moving into a bigger location a few miles away from Stanford University, Larry and Sergey’s alma mater. Larry and Sergey also hired their first company chef to cook healthy and clean food for the workers of Google. This was the start of Google providing food to their employees.
