        	According to BusinessInsider.com, Google provides time off for mothers who give birth. Many companies give mothers about six weeks off after childbirth and time off for new dads as well. However, Google gives new fathers about six weeks off and mothers eighteen weeks off. In addition, both mothers and fathers get full- time pay, including all the benefits, while getting extra money because of the expenses baby’s cause. The reason for the extended time off is parents get to spend time off to welcome and take care of their child. In addition, Google views all their employees and the family members of their employee as one big family

Another benefit that Google provides for their employees is the Googleplex. Google provides an outstanding facility in order to attract and keep their current employees. Googleplex includes a salon where employees can get a free haircut on site- instead of paying and going elsewhere. The Googleplex also includes a gym where their employees can go swimming or use their workout facility to exercise instead of paying for a gym membership. In addition, the Googleplex has a game room that has ping-pong, pool, and videogames, where employees can get to know their colleagues better while having a good time. Lastly, the Googleplex is beneficial for the company because it attracts the employees to stay at work longer because they have everything they need at work. As a result, productivity will go up which is beneficial for Google’s employees and the company.

        	According to Google Careers, Google does everything they can to keep their employees happy. Having all the benefits that Google offers costs them a lot of money but it is worth it for them if their employees continue to work for them. Google would rather keep all their employees instead of spending time and money to recruit new ones. Furthermore, there are some employees that may be displeased in some areas. Google would love to hear about the problems, so the upper management can try to do what they can to keep all their employees happy. All of Google’s employees are valuable and they want to be able to do what they can to keep everyone in the company happy.
	According to Fortune Magazine, in 2007, Google was named the #1 company to work for by “Fortune”, and followed for three more years. The environment at Google’s headquarters is described to be carefree and relaxed. Employees are encouraged to stay stress free and as happy as possible. The company believes, from the start, that it was easiest for the employees to be creative as possible if they were relaxed and not stressed. According to their website, Google offers their workers a cafeteria with in-house chefs, a company gym where workers can hit the weights anytime of the day, and nap pods for employees to take power naps whenever they are feeling exhausted. The company covered all this and not a single dime is taken from the workers pocket. Google made the working environment for its designers, programmers, and every other type of personnel as relaxed and comfortable as it can be.
