They will be able take a deep look into what happened in the middle of the twentieth century and to ‘experience’ the same emotions of the victims through their stories.
According to him, by some miracle, he chose piyut as the communication medium. A piyut is a religious song that is chanted or sung during religious services.  
Back in his youth, Kovner occasionally heard his father quietly sing a specific piyut, ‘Ma Yafit’. Although he didn’t know the significance of the piyut at the time, everyone loved to hear his father’s beautiful voice which was especially beautiful when he sang this piyut. One day at dinner, Abba Kovner joined his father in the singing of the piyut but was quickly stopped. His father explained that this piyut it is essentially a symbol of humiliation to his father. This connection between the piyut and humiliation came in the father’s youth. He accompanied his grandfather to visit Polish landlords. At a dinner with one of the Poles, the head of the Polish family insisted that the grandfather sing ‘Ma Yafit’, the same piyut that Abba Kovner’s father would go on to sing later in life. For one, the performance of piyut does not have applicable significance in a situation outside of religion. The fact that the Polish man insisted that the grandfather sing the piyut is humiliating and degrading to Judaism. Every time his father would sing the piyut, it was done so in a manner that, to him, honored the sacrifices and humiliation Jewish people have endured through. This interlude was placed to emphasize the significance that piyut has to Abba Kovner.
He says that you can walk forever and never see a chasm, but at some point, a chasm will seem to appear out of nowhere. This chasm is one that never existed before and could not be foreseen in a map. Presumably it is due to a flood that moved the sand. This flood moved the sand so much that one could not cross without assistance from the other side. This parallels his own experience when writing poem 41. Suddenly, he was unable to find a way across the chasm, representative of the search for way to communicate with his sister. Only with assistance from the other side, presumably God, could he find a way to communicate with his sister.
