In The Wretched of the Earth, Frantz Fanon explores both political and psychological motivations for the perpetuation of    spontaneous violence in the decolonization of Algeria, as well as on a global scale. Political and psychological violence complement each other in the decolonization movement of the repressed Algerians. Although the two types of violence exist together throughout colonial times, they also operate in a cause-and-effect manner. In order to escape the violence that France has inflicted upon the Algerians, they must retaliate with brute force to overthrow the inherent system of violence that French colonists have established.  Throughout his work, Fanon highlights that violence is the only means to liberation and also emphasizes the repercussions that reverberate throughout the nation after decolonization. The nation’s political struggle transforms into a psychological struggle, with long lasting effects of violence being seen in severe mental disorders. Violence is necessary in the fight for decolonization, but its cruciality is somewhat undermined by the resulting psychological damage to both parties involved in the conflict.

The key message Fanon makes in “On Violence” is that decolonization is impossible without violence. Decolonization begins at the very onset of colonization starting with the drastic change in a country’s dynamic by its colonizer. Violence is inflicted beginning with the exploitation of a country, and becomes atmospheric as the colonial system continues to exist.  Colonialism creates a compartmentalized world containing two unequal sectors: the colonists, and the natives. In the colonial sector, the French are protected by industrialism and a flourishing economy, allowing them to further establish superiority over the Algerians and legitimize their presence in Algeria. The colonists possess a sense of entitlement through the development of an economic infrastructure of wealth, intelligence, and advanced machinery. Contrarily, in the native sector, its Algerian inhabitants suffer from the pressures of poverty, political oppression, and French military force.

The natives realize this stark contrast between these two sectors and become envious of the colonists, wishing to take their place and escape subordination and military repression by bringing action to the decolonization movement. Due to the colonial system’s violent beginnings, the only way to eradicate it is through force, thus eliminating the possibility of compromise.

Further supporting Fanon’s political argument for violence is the dehumanization that the natives face as a result of the Manichaean world that colonialism establishes. The colonist sector is valued significantly more than native sector, which, to the French, legitimizes their presence in Algeria. The native Algerians have been reduced to an animal-like state due to the obvious heterogeneity of the nation. The French domination of Algeria creates a hostile atmosphere and causes the natives to develop a severe inferiority complex. In Fanon’s “Spontaneity” chapter, he emphasizes that the colonized natives exist in a petrified state, however, their attachment to the Algerian nation remains unchanged. The eventual realization of the necessity for violence against the French triggers the Algerian armed struggle and creates a national identity and unified front for the Algerians, further supporting violence’s political importance.
