 It is likely that many of these clients are either currently experiencing homelessness or will at some point in the lifespan.

Kenney outlines the process of setting organizational goals and specific, measurable, and attainable objectives. 

Through these partnerships, organizations can combine resources, knowledge, and skills, and reduce duplication of effort, enabling partner organizations to run more effectively and efficiently. 

Meals will be served 3 times per day, showers and basic toiletries will be provided, and guest laundry services will be available. BOH has also partnered with a community employment agency for persons with developmental disabilities to provide laundry services for guest bedding.

Currently, BOH partners with Greene County Public Health clinic to provide health education and vaccination services on a limited basis. When the Capital Campaign renovations are complete, BOH will have a dedicated Clinic area where local health providers can offer medical services to shelter guests.

BOH believes that every person deserves a chance at obtaining successful employment. Therefore, BOH will partner with local business organizations who are willing to hire persons participating in its CTI program, and/or to offer job skills training. For example, once construction is complete on the kitchen and dining area, a local chef plans to offer a job training program on-site to clients who want to learn restaurant cooking skills. 

MissionTracker is a cloud-based, secure software system designed for faith-based homeless shelters to collect and track client data and outcomes, with components that streamline the intake, security, case management, and outcomes reporting process. It is custom-designed for the organization, which is essential for BOH given the diverse services provided and the complexity of individual client cases. Reports on measures of client outcomes can easily be generated, making it a valuable tool for organizational assessment, accountability to the Board of Directors and stakeholders, and fundraising and grant writing.
Financial documentation will be managed using QuickBooks for Nonprofits, a software package that includes employee time tracking and payroll, and donor management, including the ability to send financial reports to show donors where the money is being spent. QuickBooks also integrates with Kindful, a comprehensive fundraising management application that provides insights into individual donor responses to fundraising campaigns and events.


While BOH would be grateful to receive a $4,000,000 grant, it would be fiscally irresponsible to rely solely on that funding to continue operations. BOH is determined to continue implementing its mission indefinitely until poverty, homelessness, and addiction are eliminated in Greene County. BOH will continue fundraising efforts to develop relationships with individual donors, churches, and charitable foundations, and will continue to seek grants as needed to meet its operating expenses and expand services as needed.

Given the prevalence of poverty, homelessness, and addiction in Xenia and Greene County, Ohio, there is a great need to bridge the gaps between community organizations who provide transitional and long-term housing, addiction recovery support, food and material assistance, and spiritual support to this population. Bridges of Hope is the ideal organization to accomplish this, and indeed has already made significant progress in bridging these gaps, but there is so much more to be done. To receive a $4,000,000 grant would be an immeasurable blessing, not only to Bridges of Hope, but to the entire Xenia community. BOH looks forward to serving this community in the name of Christ for years to come.
