The purpose of this analysis is to ascertain the mental health needs in the city of Xenia, Ohio, to identify the population experiencing one of the most pressing needs at this time, and to assess what services are currently being provided to that population. The primary needs facing at-risk populations in the City of Xenia are problems that frequently overlap one another: Mental illness, drug abuse, poverty, and homelessness. Although all four of these are important concerns in the community, the one that seems to be addressed with the fewest resources is the provision of emergency services for the homeless. Existing resources for the homeless population will be examined, including the recently opened faith-based emergency homeless shelter, Bridges of Hope. Future research is needed to determine whether existing resources are adequately serving the homeless population, and if not, how those services might be expanded to meet the needs of the community.

The first priority in laying the foundation of a community needs analysis is to identify the purpose of the assessment. The purpose of this analysis is to ascertain the mental health needs in the city of Xenia, Ohio, to identify the population experiencing one of the most pressing needs at this time, and to assess what services are currently being provided to that population. 

The primary mental health needs facing at-risk populations in the City of Xenia are needs that frequently overlap one another: Mental illness, drug abuse, poverty, and homelessness. As recommended by Scott & Wolfe, the following is an assessment of the frequency, duration, prevalence, magnitude, impact, and social concern regarding each of these four problem areas.

TCN Behavioral Health Services has provided comprehensive case management services to clients with severe and persistent mental illness since for 20 years. Currently they operate a residential group home with 8 beds and a small apartment complex for supported housing. According to Greene County Public Health, Greene County residents with disabilities are over 60% more likely to live in poverty. From this one might surmise that Xenia residents experiencing severe mental illness contribute to the elevated poverty rate in the city, although the magnitude of the problem is unclear.

In the Greene County Public Health survey, only 3% of respondents said they experienced difficulty in accessing mental health services for someone in their household in the previous 12 months, citing lack of health insurance as a primary concern, implying that mental health needs in the community are being adequately addressed. There appears to be very little focus in local media on mental health concerns, with one notable exception: Suicide. Despite having access to quality, comprehensive mental health care, over 112 Greene County residents have died by suicide since 2013. In response to this, the Mental Health and Recovery Board of Clark, Greene, and Madison counties has developed the Greene County Suicide Prevention Coalition to educate community members on how to identify persons at risk for suicide, intervene in their situation, and refer them to appropriate professional care.
