Calculus and mathematics also teach problem solving. In algebra, it’s likely students will encounter functions and it’s helpful to think of functions are various different parts that will lead to a whole, or an answer. In Calculus this concept is greatly expanded upon, there are many pieces and parts that come together as a whole, this concept arguably defines programs in themselves, many are problems of vast complexity with numerous parts that work together to give an intended result. In solving these mathematical problems, it can serve a precursor to the problems a modern programmer will face. It’s an interesting facet that not only are these two fields tied so closely together, but are also constructed in the same fashion. Therefore, one is building experience in logical thinking for computer science in by working with mathematics. Yet, there is an underlying problem with this in that, the United States education system fails to incorporate relevant information such as this within a mathematical curriculum, leaving university students puzzled at the relevance of mathematics.
UC Berkeley Professor Edward Frenkel describes his first mathematical discovery as “like the first kiss” and opts to teach prospective learners on the beauty of math altogether in his book Love and Math. A critical part of Frenkel’s work is that his work arguably proves the importance of sound mathematical skill.
This excerpt is striking as he explains a fun niche argument in math altogether that very few within any populace would know, yet it destroys the logical foundation of a basic “fact” learned at a young age. Now, the importance of this specific quote isn’t necessarily truly vital given that the quote is taking a unique argument to prove someone wrong, but what is important is within the context. Frenkel’s mathematical skill deviates well from the norm and he is thus within another realm of thinking entirely. If the general populace of any nation had his understanding of mathematics perhaps it’s fair to say they would also be a fantastic group of logical thinkers altogether, translating this unique skill to other work fields.
Moving back to Calculus however and its specific importance to students, a major aspect is that every student has something they can take away from learning it due to how flexible its usage is. For example, looking at Brian A. Barsky, a professor at UC Berkeley, a publication of his is Eyeglasses-free Display: Towards Correcting Visual Aberrations with Computational Light Field Displays and has heavy calculus usage. Another bit of research from a Berkeley professor is David Culler’s Empirical Analysis of Transmission Power Control Algorithms for Wireless Sensor Networks wherein calculus is used via algorithms to determine the transmission power for the aforementioned networks. Calculus has extreme variance in its usage and regardless of whether or not a student is learning it as an engineer or computer scientist where it’s a core requirement to their courses, numerous facets of learning it await students. Whether it be the logical thinking mentioned earlier, various technically nuanced and intricate parts vital to one’s research, or even a feeling of self-pride in learning, it’s fair to say it’s one of the most critical parts of mathematics that is available to students. 
