	Moreover, Tobias must adhere to a mask of sorts in being a hawk, creating further complications of identity. 
For Tobias, there are many advantages to be had in not drawing any attention and sticking to the normality of his physical appearance, much like anyone else. Of course, for Tobias and gender dysphoric people, it’s not that simple. There are certain needs to be fulfilled to be satisfied with oneself, and the basis of being comfortable in one’s own body is one of them. Tobias’ hawk body pushes for these needs through animal instincts, and while it’s different in the case of gender dysphoria, having to fight limitations, there is still oppression present in both. 
	One bit of solace to be found through Tobias’ struggles is in the description of when he hunts as a hawk for the first time. Describing it as an “ecstasy” is important, because it shows Tobias engaging in his animalistic instincts that have been in his mind throughout the novel, and the rewards that came with his indulgence. Biologically, his mind is elated for satisfying these needs. 
This dilemma is interesting, because it shows immense satisfaction, confusion, and regret. To make a case for gender dysphoria, it’s showing Tobias as erroneous with how he handles the oppression his animal instincts weigh on him. While it feels great for the hawk inside of Tobias, it’s certainly a shameful and regrettable act. This works differently in regards to gender dysphoria, whereas Tobias’ instincts find pleasure in engaging in harmful behavior to his humanity, someone with gender dysphoria is far more likely to find relief in behavior that is beneficial towards one’s own humanity, or feeling human, as they will feel more comfortable in one’s own body. Even in terms of society, it is opposite, many would find Tobias as a hawk, simply doing what a hawk does, what is natural, or “normal” whereas crossdressing for example, is far more likely to generate a negative response. A sense of irony then is present when the situation is observed with this comparison, because Tobias’ is engaging in something that makes him more like a hawk, and an example person with gender dysphoria would be engaging in an activity to feel more human, more natural, yet still be seen far more negatively by the public. Thus, the solace to be had is in recognizing this irony, and realizing that the end goals transcend beyond mere societal ones, and more towards one’s own feelings of wants. Tobias wants to be human, as seen by his regret and lament, the same as someone with gender dysphoria wishes to be the opposite gender, leading to a comforting example despite the distress seen in reading.
	The limitations present in both being trapped as a hawk, and the biological issues at play with gender dysphoria can be troubling. However, both are shaped back into a positive and powerful outlook based upon Tobias’ memories. The regret of the hunt, despite the initial ecstasy, hits Tobias over the next several days, it’s his memories that provide the most power.
