The incarceration of nonviolent offenders segregates the individual from the rest of society, and provides retribution and deterrence as a means of distributing justice.  If an offender is incarcerated, they are isolated from the outside world and unable to commit more crimes.  However, prisons have also been labeled as a breeding ground for crime.   In this environment, inmates must learn to look out for themselves and do anything they can in order to survive.  In this case, the award may outweigh the risk of getting caught.   Violent crime is rampant in prisons, and as overcrowding continues to be a predicament, it is more difficult to regulate.   The criminal behavior learned in prisons is likely to be displayed even once the offender is released from prison, making it more likely that the released inmate will go back to participating in criminal activity.  
The experience of incarceration is an important factor in recidivism.  While some individuals may benefit from vocational and rehabilitative programs during their time in prison, the experience of prison may contribute to the development of a career criminal in others.  Additionally, it is apparent that a stigma is placed upon the individual once they receive a criminal conviction.  This stigma decreases the ability of the individual to reintegrate back into their community and contributes to the likelihood of recidivism.   
A released non violent offender’s aversion to return to prison may contribute to their obedience to the law and prevent recidivism.  However, as a large majority of prisoners are already known to the U.S. criminal justice system, it can be inferred that prison is not an effective deterrent, nor is it successful in preventing recidivism once the offender is released back into their community.  

Criminal justice officiates have considered the benefits of a prison term versus community sentencing for nonviolent offenders.  Some argue that prison is a reasonable deterrent, and serves as an effective and appropriate punishment.  Others claim that prison is best fit for violent offenders and that nonviolent offenders are best suited for alternative sentencing.  Alternative sentences to prison for nonviolent offenders can include probation/parole, immediate sanctions, or rehabilitative programs.  Although each of these options are suitable alternatives to prison, the effectiveness in terms of deterrence and the success rate in terms of recidivism should be acknowledged and compared to the effectiveness and success rates of serving a prison term before they are put into action. 

Alternative sentencing has shown to be effective in combating the rate of recidivism as well as reducing the already overpopulated prison population.  It provides rehabilitation while allowing offenders to escape incarceration.  Therefore, more and more states are using their funds to create alternative sentencing or reform programs that are already in use.
