The effects of prison can be life-lasting on an individual.  Inmates are tested mentally, physically, and emotionally as they serve their sentences.  Physical and sexual assault are common occurrences, of which are difficult for prison faculty to control.  Nonviolent offenders are seen as weak to violent offenders in prisons and are often subjected to physical and sexual assault.  Inmates with violent convictions see them as prey, and exercise their power over the weaker inmates.  There is not a great amount of opportunity for treatment of mental and physical illnesses in prisons.  Inmates abide by a strict convict code, or set of strict behavioral norms adopted by inmates. If an inmate does not abide by the convict code, they may face serious consequences from their fellow inmates, such as physical or sexual assault.  
The stigma of a conviction can be long lasting and affect the lives of inmates after their release from prison and result in an isolation and feeling of rejection from the rest of society.  Many of these former inmates have difficulties in reintegrating back into society.  They often have trouble finding employment and housing due to their criminal records.  “…the stigma of imprisonment is a persistent, disqualifying mark for prisoners after release.  Our society offers to most criminals very few opportunities for redemption.”
 In an increasingly tough job market, it is tough for people with prior convictions to sell themselves to potential employers.  If a person is unable to acquire employment and thus maintain a living, they may resort to committing crimes as a means of survival.  There are also other actions states can take which serve as penalties of a criminal conviction.  This can include the loss of voting privileges, ineligibility for state funds which includes welfare benefits and student loans, loss or restriction of a professional license, and eviction from public housing.  Along with fines, probation, and the after effects of incarceration, a criminal conviction is packaged with various other life-affecting consequences.  In addition, prisoners become accustomed to the institutionalization of prison and the strict routine and codes of its internal structure.  Once the prisoner is released, they may miss the restrictions and structure of the institution.  
Although nonviolent offenders can by no means be labeled as innocent, a growing concern lies within the effect of prison on these individuals regarding their likelihood to commit more crimes.  The tough environment of prison can lead to a more hardened individual and invoke mental illnesses.  Expungement is one method of ridding an individual of the criminal stigma.  It involves the legal process of restoring an individual’s criminal record to the same status it was prior to their conviction, thereby removing details of former conviction records.
However, expungment is a difficult and lengthy process, with many stipulations regarding eligibility, which varies from state to state.  Individuals with prior convictions may not be capable of having their criminal records expunged, meaning that they would have to disclose their criminal record to potential employers.   Because expungment is typically enacted through state law, there is a great deal of variation.  For example, some states may require that an individual had not previously received an expungement while others require that an individual had not ever pled guilty for a criminal offense.   It is an accurate statement to say that if an individual is granted an expungement that their prior conviction records are sealed to potential employers.  However, technology has granted a greater ease of access for criminal records.  Many employers now require criminal background checks, which makes achieving employment more difficult for individuals with prior convictions.  In addition, law enforcement often utilize an individual’s prior criminal record in determining whether or not to make an arrest.  Therefore, expungement does not necessarily rid the released offender from potential biases, and it certainly does not rid them of their criminal stigma.  
