By May 2019, reading levels for students in grades K-5 will increase from base entry levels by 10% overall in the area of comprehension of informational text as measured by STAR assessments, pre/post-test scores, district benchmark assessments, and grade level common  assessments.   
The goal is to improve the reading comprehension skills of the scholars of Deerwood Academy in grades K-5 class through intensive reading instruction, careful planning and procedures. Every month, all scholars in all grade levels will have an examinations in the designated content area of reading.  The students will prepare for data tracked testing through instructional strategies, tutoring, and mentoring.  Mentoring will be done through tiered instruction and enforcing the SST process by having a team that monitors reading growth of each scholar in the school. All students who are struggling with reading achievement based on grades, SST guidelines, and the MTSS model will be placed in the SST process and systematically addressed to increase reading success and provided necessary interventions with fidelity.  
Teachers and grand band teams will be provided informational packets to initiate goal and research based strategies, guidance and professional development.
The timeframe allotted to attain the goal reflects 70% of the school year.  The students will be administered testing every month for seven months and data tracking will provide the information necessary for modifications and adjustments needed in instruction to increase student scores. 
The goal provides seven months of sample testing; modifications to instruction will occur as needed after monthly results and preparation for assessments which will reflect the final action in the goal and the realm of completion.  The returned scores from the state on the Georgia Milestones and Student Learning Objectives testing will allow the analysis of the scores for each content area. The SST process and intervention practices for students in the SST process will be analyzed and growth on testing observed to change, decline our increase interventions accordingly.
With No Child Left Behind mandating testing in every state over ten years ago, having a successful MTSS is the most effective monitoring on student achievement since its implementation in 2007.  With Atlanta Public Schools as a district having a decline in students who pass standardized reading testing in the school district, the implementation of student support teams that provide successful interventions that support reading has become ever more important.  During our school leadership retreat for Deerwood Academy for this school year, we discussed reading scores and ways to improve scores through daily instructional practices. The retreat team was inclusive to the SST coordinator for the school.  Several of the strategies we have implemented are as follows:  increasing reading literacy through social studies instruction, reading tutoring on Wednesday, SST’s addressing reading concerns with fidelity, class populations with successful reading grades as a whole “looping” up to the next grade with their teacher, and each grade level having a gifted class versus a pull out model for gifted instruction, students knowing their Lexile reading levels which are achieved through the START assessment and monitoring Lexile level growth through reading instruction programs inclusive to read theory.   
