In the spirit of No Child Left Behind (NCLB), and the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act of 2004, The RTI / MTSS team process has been dedicated to advancing the academic and behavioral achievement for all students who display deficits that effect their progress educationally.  As we have strived to promote the highest standards in student achievement in alignment with our international baccalaureate commitment, we have empowered our students to continue to middle school with the understanding of being a lifelong learner is a tool for success.   
We embrace the framework to promote instructional practices, academic and behavioral interventions that ensure district, state and federal rules, regulations, and guidelines align with students benefitting from the process.  
As the authors reflect that “Teamwork is essential for an effective MTSS”, I will go further and say it is a non-negotiable part of the process; and the engine that drives the entire program.  
As chapter 7 reflects on the allocation of roles, our RTI / MTSS is set up similar to the recommended design in the reading, but some components are different.  Some caseloads have a different team membership structure that is designed based on the type of response to intervention is being addressed.  You may see the PBIS behavior specialist and district social emotional learning staff at a SST meeting regarding behavioral concerns, where as you may see the instructional coach at an academic based SST meeting as well as a content area specialist in the building.  As the manner in which the teams are designed, they are individually designed to advance the best specialist in the building when addressing the best way to deal with concerns, and the accountability of the team.  The teams further combine their expertise, professional experiences, and commitment to create a problem solving approach to the case and collaborate or bring in additional team members as necessary which may be the school social worker or the school principal.  None the less, the vision of the team is shared and the goal remains how to best help a scholar through interventions and strategies that can advance the good of the scholar.  
As the authors state “school wide teams must have membership that represents all parts of the school community, this is an area where I feel there are some lacking components.  While members may be part of the team, there work in the team is not active holistically.  This is seen by members missing meetings, not being active in team meetings, SST Meetings, and collaborative planning, primarily because their multi role work in the school limits their ability to fully involve in the RTI / MTSS process at times which reflects, time delays, rescheduling, and deadlines postponed or missed.  
The data considered in the RTI / MTSS process for our scholars is extensive and analyzed with precision.  We commence at tier 2 looking at standards based performance, STAR assessment data, grade level common assessments, report cards, interventions, and progress monitoring.  These practices many times do not commence at the RTI / MTSS process, but are enforced and enhanced through recording, reporting and systematically data tracking what actions are being taken.  All data is brought to the table when the team screening process commences.  
