The reflection will review a first grade student and the learning concerns he has shown based on an observation I performed on the student in his homeroom class.  The academic team felt it was necessary to commence documentation of his behavior in the classroom setting.   
We will call the student Cy.  He is a 1st grade student who shows difficulty completing grade level tasks.  The observation was performed with seventeen students present and his teacher. The observation was done while the teacher was teaching social studies.  The teacher was explaining to the class how to complete their social studies instructional task and how to put the habitats book together correctly.  Cy needed constant prompting by the teacher to sit down, return to his seat, and to listen.  The student responded by not adhering to his teacher’s directives until his teacher went directly to him and re-directed him several times again to return to his seat.  Because I clearly observed learning concerns that may stem from a developmental perspective, I looked for the use of assistive technology. Colored construction paper was used, highlighters, and color coded tabs for Cy to complete the activity.
Cy’s interaction with adults and peers was not present.  He was playing with his shoe laces.  Adaptive behaviors that were noted were both appropriate and inappropriate.  Cy would not sit “criss cross apple sauce” like the other children, he would sit with his hands on the floor and alternative holding the teachers chair from the bottom legs and sitting with hands on floor.  
Based on the observation, from a developmental perspective, Cy shows deficits in adaptive behavior, cognition, communication, motor development and emotional development.  The deficits observed are to the extent that, if Cy is not provided with interventions, the delay may adversely affect his educational performance in age-appropriate activities.  I feel Piaget’s cognitive developmental stages theory targets what my observation revealed.
