Because the Student Support Team process is a state-mandated and school-based intervention process, as outlined in Georgia’s Student Achievement Pyramid of Interventions, Atlanta Public Schools / Deerwood Academy follows the state process with fidelity.   Student Support Team Compliance serves as the basis for facilitation of Tier 3-Response to Intervention services through our district and we have a team of SST coordinators that work rigorously throughout the school year to ensure each and every student that needs support receives services.  I believe the PowerPoint creates a foundation for how the problem solving process is to be approached and my school / district works diligently to be in compliance.  
As the purpose of the Student Support Team is to provide support to both students and teachers with the outcome being improved student performance, as a district, we can improve on the time frame that the Response to Intervention District Team takes to identify, and create a “red folder” for students who need services.  We can also become more committed to providing training, resources, and guidance to school-based teams to help ensure the delivery of high quality instruction, research-based interventions, progress monitoring, and prompt identification of at-risk students.  Our teachers shy away from putting students through the SST process because the amount of time it adds to their already over filled schedules.  
The professional learning team for Atlanta Public Schools is currently working on professional learning for the 2016-2017 school year for SST throughout the district.  This will be inclusive to SST monthly meeting at our Instructional Service Center to ensure best practices are prevalent at all times throughout the district.  Problem solving competencies need to be reviewed this upcoming school year with school based SST teams.  Most of the professional development on SST in the district invites the school based coordinators and leaves all other team members excluded.  This is where the foundation of our school based teams is the weakest.  
