	There were some in the film that did not need this exposure however and they held a high level or morality and values.  A lot of those that were interviewed already had an understanding of their place in the world and felt that they were making a difference.  Not to take away what they do when they separate garbage but it’s not a job that anyone would accept in the United States much less be proud of like some of the pickers.  It was inspiring that some people had done the same thing for a very long time and took pride in what they did each day.  It’s also sad that a large city like Rio has such a large population of improvised and has a large population of the very wealthy.

	The pickers are generally looked down upon by the rest of society and are deemed worthless but that is not true at all.  They do things on a daily basis that people are not willing to do and those same people have no interest in caring what happens to their garbage after it is thrown out.  The assumption is that they are worthless people doing something because it is all they have to offer to put food on the table.  But we know that they are masters of innovation and capable of doing large works of art with those things that are thrown out.  The overall concept of “assumption assault” from Tuckers book applies to the pickers in many ways.  We know that they are not worthless but rather loving and innovative individuals who seek an honest day’s work for an honest wage.  So, that makes them very similar to any upstanding citizen of any community.
	In a hypothetical situation let’s say that you are on a mission to find people to start a small business and only get the option to hire within the picker community.  Starting with a leader there is the head of the group that represents all of the pickers and has demonstrated values that are common with the core of service to your customers.  There are those that make the deals with people who buy the recovered recyclable materials and they would be well suited to work on the accounting and sales side of any business.  There is a cook who takes care of all of the pickers and has a deep passion for taking care of people who would make a great human resources employee.  And there is a deep pool of hard working honest individuals that you can pick from to be employees to fill in the gaps.
	The assumption is that you would not be able to find these people there because they are people that nobody cares about and likely know nothing about how to run a business.  But collectively they run a community where everyone supports each other through innovation and values.  That is very close to what it takes to run a successful business and that is what Vik set out to do and can be seen in the documentary by Almega Products.  In order to assault assumptions people must set out and find out about others before making any sort of judgment but that can be harder said than done.  Being able to dispel assumptions you have to have a bit of life experience and that comes with time.  But keeping an open mind is a great way to go about your daily life and have a new approach on life.
