	Change in an organization is only as strong as those that are in charge of the people involved in such change.  The support structure that is setup in most companies is usually setup with a management and non-managerial employees.  Change must come from the manager and trickle down to the non-management employees who carry out most of the work.  Blake and Mouton have come up with a grid to grade managers on two axis; concern for people and concern for production.  The force field analysis by Kurt Lewin looks at the forces that either restrain or drive a project and its people.  Zenger and Folkman talk about how critical coaching is to employees and the change process.  Finally, the 360 degree feedback model by custom insight is a model where employees are given the opportunity to anonymously give feedback for other managers and employees.
	All of these relate to my change model because they all involve management and how they influence the change process.  The 360 degree feedback model could be implemented but we have something similar where we have peer recognition that is submitted to a panel and they vote on who should be recognized and all this is anonymous.  The force field analysis should be used at the beginning of a software deployment because you need to know what will hold you back and what will help keep the deployment moving along.  The managerial grid can be used to grade and target managers that are needed for specific tasks.  There could be some sort of grading level set to managers so you know who would work out the best in what role or stage in the project.  Coaching is something that everyone can learn from especially in high stress decisions where people should know if they have or do not have the authority to make a business impact decision.

	Blake and Mouton have some up with a grid that looks at the concern for people and the concern for production as the X and Y axis on a grid.  If someone is low on both ends then they are seen as lazy and not taking action on anything or caring about anything and production would be very low.  If the manager only cares about his employees then the employees feel good and connected to their manager but do not have a concern for production, which is what people are expected to do at work, produce.  People that are only focused only on production will not be respected by his employees because of the constant push to produce.  In the middle is sometimes okay but at the upper right where you care highly about your people and care highly about production is the sweet spot.  In this position you are respected by your employees and they are motivated to produce at the best of their abilities.

	The need for coaching is critical in the business environment because in an office you are not always doing something that can be critiqued by simply observing.  It’s in the way you interact with others and how they perceive you are the things that are important, that is where coaching comes in.  Coaching and managing are totally different things because managing is something that you have to do in order to keep your employees engaged and doing the correct things.  Coaching, the constant feedback loop is best recieved when done in a genuine fashion and not too often.  If it is done incorrectly or too often it can do more harm than good.
