	The title one holds in their company often times dictates weather you have power or not.  A CEO would have the ultimate power over people in the company and most would listen to that person and do any reasonable request that that person makes.  Power certainly comes from titles and ranking in a company because we all likely have to listen to our manager and do as they say along with everyone else above them.  While they may not be a good leader or possess any leadership skills we still have to do what they say because they hold the power to fire us and the power to tell us what to do in most cases.
	On a smaller scale a title might not make that much of a difference like within smaller teams made up of under ten people.  The manager typically holds the power but there are people under the manager with varying titles, like in my role we have 1-3 and a senior level.  Senior level does not give much power over the people that fall into the 1-3 category it just means that the senior person is expected to do higher level things.
	The ability of a leader to influence someone using power is best accomplished by masking the fact that you are indeed using your power.  People like to develop relationships with people because they see them as beneficial people to keep around.  Like someone would likely want to become friends with the chief of police so they think they could get out of anything because the chief has that power.  While the chief sees them as a friend too because they might do favors for them personally or just being good golf buddies.  I’m in no way inviting corruption or anything along those lines just merely mentioning that friendship is sometimes like business deals where everyone is trying to be a salesperson.
	While relationships are the friendliest way to conduct business it sometimes just takes a forceful person with power to instruct people to do things.  When very critical tasks are being completed or in emergency situations.  Or where you are dealing with people that do not have any experience in what they are doing.  This method can really be done by anyone if they seem to know what they are talking about at times.  In times of emergency there has to be someone in charge because there are those that cannot speak and the person in charge is taking care of basic needs like getting to safety.  As long as that person knows where safety is then people will listen to them.

	The top five things that I’ve been able to take away from this class are important to me in my journey to becoming a better leader.  The process in evaluating and implementing change based on the situation was impactful in the way I look at change and the pushback we sometimes get from change.  Identifying the leaders in my life and realizing that they are everywhere and not just specific to my professional life.  Being mastery from our Cashman presentation was impactful because it focuses on things that are not traditionally associated with leadership.  The discussion around socio technical systems by Applebaum was insightful because I work with this type of system on a daily basis.  And finally the lessons learned from the video on how Silicon Valley was started from PBS American Experience film viewed in class.
