The consequences charted out by Lawrence for the United States are outlined below. 
This chart outlines the consequences on the economy if the president were to increase or decrease oil production.  This chart describes peak oil in a different way by addressing how the US trade deficit would be reduced.  The idea that domestic oil production being increased and consumption going down would likely only benefit the United States.  Looking into the future pretending that production is up and consumption down, oil exports of excess oil to other countries by the US would benefit the gross domestic profit in ways that are currently vastly unrealized.
The other benefit would be that dependence of large shipments of oil from the Middle East would be minimized.  This would help because logistics costs would go down and negotiations and agreements with other countries would become unnecessary.  The shipments have also proven to be disastrous to the environment when accidents happen and this would of course minimize those risks when shipping between continents.  
The last benefit is the ability to supply other countries with American oil.  This would now be a two way street and would further open up relationships with other countries that were formerly shaky relationships.  The second and third largest companies according to the Fortune 500 list are petroleum companies.  They have the capacity to ship oil worldwide and currently do by means of tankers and ocean liners.  This will create jobs and create a new economy in places that an abundance of oil can be found.  Wages are relatively high in the oil and gas sector and average around $44 per hour.  If the United States is able to compete in these markets it will bring further prosperity to the United States and it residents.
Foreign oil trade is currently restricted in the United States by law.  The oil that is being produced domestically is of the “sweet crude” grade and refineries in the US are not setup to refine this.  Exporting this oil would benefit refineries in other parts of the world and in turn create a profit for the US.

The need for the oil is ever growing and cannot be eliminated anytime soon.  By stay vigilant as a country to keep producing new ideas and products that seek to use this resource wisely. There is also the ever present responsibility to the environment to be careful while drawing the oil out of the ground safely and without much damage to the earth.  At the very least I hope that this opens readers eyes to things that they did not know before and will think about what can be done to produce and conserve the vast resources of this great country.
The impact humans have on the earth should not be taken lightly.  Humans have already caused disasters that turned out to be devastating to the environment.  The earth has already endured enough damage from things that were not known about until after the fact.  Thankfully there is technology in place to safeguard the environment from the potential harm drilling for oil can do to the planet.  Working together with all parties involved will ensure no further damage is done to the environment while staying vigilant to safeguard oil rig operators from any future disasters.
