	BP has taken responsibility by working on The 26 recommendations to ensure that another disaster does not happen on another of their oil rigs.  Procedures were put in place to safeguard another blowout under the sea resulting in another disaster through cementing technology.  Trainings for key personnel and contractors were made mandatory starting at the top BP, 2014).  Experts were hired on in areas of engineering, safety, and drilling technology.  These updates to procedures, technology, and personnel demonstrate the fact that BP is committed to not letting a disaster happen again. 

Unger states that the United States Geological Survey estimates that the territory north of the Arctic Circle “holds 90 billion barrels of oil”.  And at today’s price that comes out to being well over a trillion dollars in today’s price of crude oil of $52.93.  The number suggest that there is quite the opportunity beneath the surface in Alaska.  The US has chosen to make drilling in certain areas of Alaska, particularly the ANWR off limits since the 1980s.  If those regulations are lifted this will open up new avenues for domestic oil production, but not without difficulty.  
Alaska has a very different physical landscape and a different economic landscape that both support and dazzle its residents through its natural bounty.  Coming in there and drawing up oil from the ground without holding someone responsible for safety an environmental impacts causes concern.  Unger’s report on the issue of drilling in Alaska’s Outer continental shelf discusses the importance of mindfulness toward environmental impacts.  He lists out what the United States should do in order to protect the environment and hold the parties doing the drilling accountable for their actions if an accident would occur.
	The risk of drilling in Alaska has a few challenges, the first being the fact that the part of Alaska is so remote and lacking some of the needed things like roads, electricity, and emergency services.  Consideration should also be given to the environmental impacts of a disaster happening like the Deepwater Horizon and Exxon Valdez spills that happened in the past.  The remote nature of Alaska also prevents a quick response to any and all environmental spills or accidents involving drilling for oil.  This is not only dangerous to the employees on site but of course the Alaskan wilderness.

President Obama has allowed the increase of domestic oil production each and every year.  The president has a strong grip on oil production and has a commitment to the American people to provide jobs and remove the dependence on foreign oil.  The president realizes that oil is traded on a world market platform and the United States must compete on this platform with domestic oil that is produced with in the United States.
If the president were to completely cut ties with foreign oil there would be benefits to the economy and the employment rate in the United States.  The first benefit would be cheap gas prices that would enable people to drive for less and spend more on things that boost the economy.  Domestic oil would eliminate the costs associated with the logistics of getting the oil across oceans.  The oil would be able to be piped directly into nearby refineries and then loaded into tankers for transportation to gas stations or storage facilities.  The other thing would be that people would now be able to drive to work, costing them far less than before and have a job in the oil production field.  These jobs would be far reaching into all fields because there would need to be support systems in place for those that do the actual work.
