	This style is appropriate because we deal with farmers, large companies, and people that buy agricultural products.  Generally speaking these people possess the same values that most of our employees do.  If your leadership style aligns with your customers values, you will surely be successful.
	When it comes to safety in the different industrial settings we have to have the structured leadership style because people’s lives are on the line.  Handling chemicals, climbing ladders, and being around high pressure valves and lines is a constant safety concern and processes must be followed at all times.  From a business standpoint people getting hurt can cause damage to reputation, loss of worktime, and of course money.  But none of that takes away from pain and suffering or even death. 

	The difference in styles of leadership must adjust at any organization or take that “it depends” approach we talked about this week.  For instance the marketing group has to be creative while the safety crew must make people safe.  If you get these people together their leadership styles may clash but often times must work together and come up with solutions that align with each other’s mission.  If you are aware of this potential clash you will be more successful because you can put on a different hat and deal with people differently, this is where the “it depends” comes into play. 
	There is also a bit of separation from “plant” and “office” people because of the vast difference between each other’s roles.  While some people at the plant might be all about production and getting the job done where the people in the office are focused on the bottom line and safety the two sides will likely clash.  This kind of difference is vital to each respective department because they do indeed depend on each other but would rather think that they’d be fine without one another.  All roles in a company are important and these types of conflicts are healthy because it reinforces the others point of view and makes people think a bit differently.  

	Power for some people comes inherently in their personality or their own belief that they actually have power.  But personally I believe my power comes from respect through demonstrated knowledge and ability at the task or subject I’m talking about or performing.  Power also comes naturally from our position or title in the company one works.  On the other side of the coin respect does not always cut it since we cannot be subject matter experts on everything we do so we must fake it at times.  While faking it seems extreme but if you have power you will never be questioned.
	I am a firm believer in earning things that we are able to call ours and that includes how we are seen by our peers.  If you go to school about a certain subject then you can reasonably be believed to know something more than just a lay person on the street.  If you do a specific job or function you are likely considered an expert and can be powerful when talking to someone who isn’t. 
