	The 360 degree program is one that relies on feedback from others whether they be your peers or from direct reports.  These reports are filled out and submitted on an anonymous basis and you have to fill one out about yourself.  These are great ways to track how others feel about you and adjust accordingly.  Feedback is critical to everyone because people need to know how they are doing and how they can improve.  The 360 degree model is setup to focus on things like how well you are perceived, how well you get along with others, and how they think you are doing in your role.  They are not setup to judge performance toward company or personal goals.

	The force field analysis is used to illustrate those forces that are working with and against a common goal or a change process.  You draw a line down the middle of the page and put those pulling away from the goal on the right and the ones driving forces on the left and you’ll see what forces you have working with or against you.  You do not want to be too heavy on the restraining side because then you have too many restraints to go forward and need to find some more driving factors.

	All of these methods and tools are easily translated into the process of implementing a new software program to a company.  The general understanding at the beginning of a project that a force field analysis would provide would be critical to even see if a project is worth taking on.  If it does not present itself as favorable then you would know that you’d have to adjust resources and find more driving forces.  The grid would provide a sort of scoring system that you could use with different managers that you’ll likely need in different situations.  This would help to identify your production and people managers and those in-between to do the rest of the work.  The 360 degree feedback program would give feedback throughout the process and would continually shape those involved to become better managers and employees.  And knowing the difference between managing and coaching would help those that need coaching to be successful and equip managers with the correct mindset on how to approach a personnel situation.  
