	Inspiration, is what the reaction is to this film because it inspires us to look at all that we have and realize that it really does not matter and those that do not have it like those in this film do not really even want it.  It makes one wonder what really is “it” what are we really striving for?  Some want money, some want things, some want peace and happiness.  Some of the pickers found what they want and have all that they want, while others are still searching.  They are proud to do what they do and seem to enjoy it but still have trouble making ends meet which is sad because they work so hard and do not get paid very much.  It was surprising to see how quickly they jumped right in there to get what they were after that day to recycle but they probably didn’t have to because they got paid a flat fee.  I suspect it would be hard to have that model in the United States because most would not be as enthusiastic to wade through trash to find recyclable materials.  It would have to shift to a quantity type of pay and those that found the most would be paid the most.
	Innovation, is what these people saw when they were working on the portraits of their friends and further reinforced the meaningfulness of their collection efforts.  They saw that everything has a use right down to the dirt but it sometimes takes a different perspective to find a use for those things that others deem as something to throw out.  Vik, was that other set of eyes and felt that he indeed had everything he needed and more but wanted to give something back to those who were not as fortunate.

	Art and innovation or creativity are always closely associated and rightfully so.  But the making of art out of others garbage is a whole new type of innovation.  When the movie opened up one would think how an artist would be able to adhere garbage to a piece of paper to create art but come to find out he takes photographs of the art from above.  This type of innovation in the movie reaches deep into people to make them feel like they are part of something huge which in fact they truly are.  The art comprised of recyclable materials was then sold and the money was used to benefit others in Rio de Janeiro.  For the first time these people were able to make a difference and see that difference that they can make.
	Art can stand to be a platform for innovation because it is mostly limitless in what you can call art and what others perceive to be art.  “The world is but a canvas to the imagination” is a quote by Henry David Thoreau that describes this film accurately because Vik sought out to make a difference and finds those that need help the most.  People sometimes look to art for their source of innovation to create that spark to take that new job or new idea at work to the next level or inspire them to speak up about their new ideas.  In the film art was used to bring a sense of the larger picture to those that only knew extreme poverty and garbage.  
