	I consider my father a leader in my life as someone who has always been there and supported me in whatever endeavor I take on.  He is a good person who works hard and is not selfish by making sure everyone else around him is taken care of.  He leads by example by treating people with respect and his relationships with people show that they in turn respect him as well.
	I obviously value my father as my father but I feel that I take it to a deeper level and look to him as more than just that role model of a father but a model to be a good leader and person when dealing with others.  He is a leader because he works hard and does not give excuses when it comes time to get the work done either physical or at times when things need discussed.  I believe that leading by example is a great way to ensure those around you who see you as a leader are able to learn from your example, this is especially important when you are a father. 
	Some of my personal shadows are being too confident, thinking that everyone should like me, and being too rigid when exploring new ideas.  I’ve also been able to overcome some of my shadows things like being right all the time and having to “keep up with the Joneses”.  In reading Cashman I was able to understand why I feel the way I feel when I’m confronted with a  situation I cannot understand why someone is upset with me or why someone has reacted to what I’ve said.
	I’m often times too confident in everything I do and it is apparent to some that know me and it does not show with others.  I feel that I am knowledgeable in a lot of fields and am not afraid to tell others what they should be doing.  This is seen as confrontational to some while it just seems to work for others.  I have been in situations where I am up front with people and they seem to agree while face to face but as it turns out they are not happy and feel differently.  I was taken back by the reaction and after reading chapter one in the Cashman reading I was able to realize that I actually had a personal shadow that I was unaware of.  I am now working on resolving those personal shadows and am able to identify most personal shadows.

	The leadership style at my organization is largely a straightforward Midwestern type of leadership style.  What I mean by that is that people are easy going, to the point, and relatively easy to get along with.  But that kind of style expects everyone to do their part when it comes to tasks and things that are important in the workplace.  In terms of this class I would classify it as a structured style because things like safety, quality, and processes need to be followed in order to be successful.  I believe this style aligns with our customers and colleagues overall.
