	Change can be a tricky thing to implement but it is vital to a business’s success and can sometimes cause it to fail if not handled properly.  We learned that there are three types of change directed, planned and guided change.  If we take the time to identify which type of change is necessary for the type of change you are handling it makes things much easier.  In the information technology world there are all three types of change but most users would prefer the guided approach because it involves them.  Directed and planned changes are necessary to keep the lights on or KTLO as we call it in IT and that applies to patching and upgrading systems to increase productivity and efficacy.  Directed change works across all groups and strives to make things easier, which is what we all prefer.
	When identifying leaders in my life there are plenty to think of and it occurred to me that they come from all sorts of places which is reassuring me to know that.  It’s reassuring because I see that as being well rounded and have positive leaders in all aspects of my life.  I do believe that leadership can be applied in all areas in our lives not just the workplace.  There are different styles that we have learned about and each has their place in my life.  For example at home we must use guided change and not be as direct since we do indeed have to live with our family and everyone has to be happy.  Where at work we might get away with being direct because it’s just work and we have a job to do.
	Cashman identified being mastery as a critical part of each and every leader and was very important to him personally as well.  In this chapter Cashman believes that we should become relaxed to find our inner being through meditation or exercise.  When we are able to do that then the solution to some problems may just “roll at our feet”.  This means to me that I should exercise more and become relaxed.  For me this rings true in my daily shower thoughts when I’m in the shower with no stimulation and nothing else to do besides wash up which is done nearly involuntarily.  When a shower thought comes to me it is often something out of left field where but is totally a viable solution or idea that could be easily implemented.  I sometimes step out and immediately send that e-mail or type up the idea I was thinking about.
	When dealing with socio technical systems we obviously must think about the people that are affected and how difficult or easy the new system or change is.  When dealing with technology some people are immediately overwhelmed and confused even with some simple things because they are not that experienced in dealing with technology their entire lives.  The idea of everyone having a computer and mobile devices is relatively new when you think about it.  There are people that are alive when the computer was merely invented let alone having one in your pocket.  So we must think these kinds of thing out and take baby steps during an implementation or change. 
