	The video on Silicon Valley was really interesting because it had to do with technology and where it all started.  The leaders in the video are very intelligent people who invented something groundbreaking but ended up breaking up because of new fame and fortune.  While they had something great they didn’t know much about leadership and how to manage themselves accordingly.  I think this is a great lesson for us to learn because our lives are likely to change after graduation and some may come out thinking that they are so much smarter but I believe that we are only setup to learn great things.  I doubt any of us will become famous and invent anything groundbreaking like these folks did we must realize that good things are coming and not screw it up.
	Things that we discussed, read, and presented on finally focus on what our major is about and that is leadership and the different styles and methods associated.  I’m glad to have dug into those styles because it’s good to know a variety of styles because every situation is different and the outcomes will vary with what style we choose.  We also learned from the experience of some leaders and some people that have trained and studied leadership which was very valuable.  I feel the experience in this course has given me some more tools to apply toward future situations and I have taken another step in the direction of becoming a better leader.

	Out of the many leaders that were presented to us last week I believe that I relate to Bill Clinton the best because of his personality and charisma.  I do realize that Bill has his issues but also believe that he handled them well and has done well for himself and his family even after those controversies.  His charisma has gotten him pretty far even after his upbringing and nontraditional childhood.
	Having charisma can take you plenty of places in life and certainly helps in most situations.  Bill knows this and has been able to capitalize on this which is why I relate.  If you are able to realize what you are good at and leverage that trait then you will do well.  For me I thought about what I was good at and what I liked and for me that was helping people with computer issues.  I have always been this way and have always been there to help anyone in my family or friends with whatever they need.  This is important because I was able to realize that I had that knowledge and actually enjoy it so I went into the IT field. 
	Bill also got into some hot water with his affairs and dishonoring his family but how they handled it speaks highly of their character and ability to overcome an issue.  I was once told that “it’s not what happens to us, it’s how we react to them” and I totally believe that and always have.  Everyone knows what you did but it’s what you do to resolve it or overcome it is what really matters.  Bill and his family have been able to keep their reputation and he’s called upon to speak at many events where he is paid quite a bit of money.  Some people would just go into hiding out of shame and that is not the Clinton family.
