I, Robot tells a story about an ordinary yet fantastic future with robots.  In the book there are tales of robots that have gone mad, robots with a sense of humor, and robots who secretly run the world.  A robots’ desire is contained within The Three Laws of Robotics.  Isaac Asimov created The Three Laws, and when he did they, and this book, changed how people viewed robots in science fiction.
	The storytelling elements in I, Robot are varied.  Instead of writing a novel, Asimov chose to write nine short stories that were linked together in some fashion or another.  While stories tied into each other with characters and plots overlapping and occasionally interweaving, the ultimate theme of the book is morality.  The morality of both humans and robots, and the morality that The Three Laws imposes is the ultimate narrative voice in I, Robot.
	“And, finally, worked his precise mechanical mind over the highest function of the robot world—the solutions of problems in judgment and ethics “(Asimov 72).  Here Dave the robot is being tested by Donovan and Powell.  His math is first tested, then the men test the robot’s physical reactions, which would be akin to giving a human a physical.  Last, Dave’s moral reasoning is tested by the duo.
	"You can't tell them," droned the psychologist slowly, "because that would hurt and you mustn't hurt. But if you don't tell them, you hurt, so you must tell them. And if you do, you will hurt and you mustn't, so you can't tell them; but if you don't, you hurt, so you must; but if you do, you hurt, so you mustn't; but if you don't, you hurt, so you must; but if you do, you— “(Asimov 110).   Dr. Susan Calvin, the book’s only constant character, is getting revenge on Herbie the robot here because he lied to people to make them happy.  A few of the robots in the book get caught between two of the laws, or in one case, three, but here Herbie is being driven mad by Dr. Calvin, all because she was embarrassed.
The above excerpt of dialogue shows that in the world that Asimov created, the roles and rules were fairly clear cut.  Morality is the baseline of which everything is measured.  Humans are flawed, often deeply.  Robots are innocents, much like children, who just follow the rules that are laid out for them.
Christopher Pike wrote the young adult novel The Eternal Enemy in 1993.  It owes a great deal to Asimov and I, Robot.  The character development is at a different pace than I, Robot, which is to be expected as one is adult fiction and the other is young adult fiction.  While Pike’s book is geared for teenagers, it is surprisingly mature in the character development and desire.  Rela, the main character, goes from a happy go lucky, typical teenage girl to a mature young woman who uses her mysterious VCR that records the future to try and save people’s lives and prevent disasters.  Her only real desire is her boyfriend, Christopher.
