Brave New World, being about a drug-induced idyllic culture brought forth thanks to genetics and cloning, shows that the psychoanalytical theory is present all throughout the text and is vital for Huxley to create the outcome he desired.  By far, the most noticeable example is in the conditioning of the caste systems.  Even before in utero, the different castes are accustomed to withstand certain environments to make them ideal for their workplace.  The forming of the caste system is an excellent example of the theory because of the use of alcohol and oxygen deprivation would cause brain damage and birth defects to separate the castes.  Each caste must be of a certain height and intelligence level in order to keep society under control.  The use of soma in the adults also plays a role on the children.  They are taught at a young age that ingesting soma and having group sex is normal and encouraged.  The children grow up to have what we consider a warped sense of reality due to the negative experiences they endured as a child.  Every lesson the children learn will forever be engrained in them as a part of their existence where their sole purpose is to serve everyone else
	Aldous Huxley, when writing Brave New World, had the opportunity to turn his vision into a cautionary tale for future generations.  Instead his book was his ode to every fantasy, every depraved thought that he ever had.  Huxley imagined a society that would use genetics and cloning in accordance with specific conditioning to create an ideal society in which everyone serves his or her purpose.  Real life dictators would later try to bring this idea to fruition.  Having ten men that rule the world?  Let’s never have painful emotions, or any strong emotions except happiness, thanks to a drug called stoma.  And this drug never gives anyone a hangover, though the origin of the name is slightly peculiar. “An artificial opening between two hollow organs or between one hollow organ and the outside of the body, constructed to permit the passage of body fluids or waste products”. (By Change in Shape…) In this would there is no falling in love, only indiscriminate sex, which begins when you are very young.  There is no science, no religion, no literature, no art, nothing that is both valued and taken for granted in today’s world.  Women are second class citizens who aren’t even permitted to be mothers if they want to.  Everything in Utopia is fundamentally about having sex while you are high with little to no consequences. 
		The psychoanalytical theory aims to increase the understanding of the unconscious mind and its effect on human behavior.  The theory stated that the unconscious mind consisted of three parts: the id, the ego, and the superego. Freud saw the psyche structured into three parts (i.e. tripartite), the id, ego and superego, all developing at different stages in our lives. These three pieces come together to influence the way we think and behave. (McLeod) Freud’s psychoanalytical theory suggests that the negative experiences during childhood could have a lifelong influence on personality and behavior.  Whether Huxley had a negative experience during childhood, or he studied Freud and his psychoanalytical theory, they play a part in Brave New World.  Most of the people living in Utopia haven’t developed beyond their id.  The soma and the hypnosis, along with all of the sex, help to keep the people content to not develop beyond that stage.
