Asimov and Pike were, for the most part, both successful in getting across their respective intended meanings in their novels using storytelling elements.  Character development and desire was more the strong suit in The Eternal Enemy, simply because it was a more linear story focusing on a singular person, therefor there was more room for the author expand Rela’s character.  The point of view in I, Robot was solid, partially because it was always changing yet the reader is always seeing the robots and how no matter how they might struggle, they are truly innocents.  The dialogue is strong in both.  The dialogue is very different in both books, obviously, but it is equally strong.
“In 2004 The Saturday Evening Post said that I, Robot's Three Laws "revolutionized the science fiction genre and made robots far more interesting than they ever had been before”. Robots are all over books and media.  These two novels are both similar yet dissimilar.  They share certain features of the same storytelling elements.  One is an obvious classic that will continue to stand the test of time.  The other might just surprise people. 
The atmosphere in The Eternal Enemy goes from bubblegum pop to sturm und drang towards the end when Rela discovers who is behind all of the mysterious goings on in her life that have just started happening.  Meanwhile, the atmosphere in I, Robot never underwent such a dramatic shift, because the struggle of the robot’s innocence versus human’s flawed nature.  Nonetheless, the atmosphere of both books carries a sense almost of redemption at the end.  Not so much a redemption for one’s self, but a literal redemption for humanity.
In the 2006 movie Superman Returns Lex Luthor says “You see whoever controls technology controls the world. The Roman empire ruled the world because they built roads. The British empire ruled the world because they built ships. America; the atom bomb.  This is true of both books eventually.  Towards the end of I, Robot the robots are controlling so much and doing so much that people start to fear them and a faction actually want all robots to be done away with.  In The Eternal Enemy the technology of Rela’s VCR soon controls her world and sends it askew and plays a pivotal role in the climax where she finds out about the time traveling cyborgs that want to end humanity for humanity’s sake.  Technology, and the control of it, are fundamental to both books because they are science fiction dealing with robots.  Nonetheless, human emotion is at play in a much larger way in The Eternal Enemy than in I, Robot.  
Both Asimov and Pike chose to write stories that would transcend the first reading.  It takes several readings to fully grasp the messages that each book is trying to portray.  Both are cautionary tales.  In I, Robot, Asimov is showing the dangers of technology and the abuse of it.  It turns humans into distrustful people who cannot trust the blameless caretakers that we have produced to help us.  This is a lesson that literally played out in the news recently in Dallas when for the first time the police used a bomb squad robot to kill a gunman that killed five police officers in a standoff. Was it necessary to use a robot to kill?  In Asimov’s world, that is breaking the most important of The Three Laws.  Pike’s ultimate message in The Eternal Enemy is that self-sacrifice is perhaps the most noble and loving thing that anyone can do.  Rela could have killed her Grandfather and gone on living her life as a cheerful eighteen-year-old Southern California teenager who loves her boyfriend/grandfather, ice cream, adoptive father, and hates calculus.  She doesn’t do this.  She realizes that “the needs of the many outweigh the needs of the few, or the one”, to misquote Spock, and she sacrifices herself because she loves Christopher and she loves her adoptive father and she just loves humanity, even the bad parts.  When she leaves the VCR to Christopher with the tape of her memories, she trusts that he will make the right decision because he lost her but he also loved her.
