The narrative voice fluctuates between girlishly innocent “I was just a normal teenage girl. I loved beautiful clothes and loud music, long telephone conversations and sleepy summer evenings. Most of all I loved cookies and boys. My favorite cookies were chocolate chip -- with milk. You've got to have milk to have cookies. That's what I always said.”  and wise beyond her years “How fragile we all are. Time has a permanent hold on us the moment we're born. It allows us to grow, to get big. We go to school, we find jobs, we fall in love, get married, and have children. Time lets us do all these things. But then, in the end, it kills us."  It is the marriage of these two that blends together and makes Rela’s character so sympathetic in the light of the conclusion of the book.
	The robotic elements in The Eternal Enemy don’t really show up until the very end of the book, outside of Rela’s nightmares.  It is at the end that we find out that Rela is actually a Robotic Experimentation Logistical Algorhythm, created by herself in the future and sent back to the present to kill her grandfather when he was young.  Her grandfather, also known as her boyfriend Christopher.  Rela’s Grandfather helped to create cyborgs that had computer chips mixed with parts to human central nervous systems.  These cyborgs, in an odd nod to Asimov, decided to wipe out humanity to end mankind’s suffering.  Rela is successful in defeating the Eternal Enemy, but at the cost of her own life.
The storytelling elements in I, Robot are varied.  Instead of writing a novel, Asimov chose to write nine short stories that were linked together in varied ways.  While stories tied into each other with characters and plots overlapping and occasionally interweaving, the ultimate theme of the book is morality.  The morality of both humans and robots, and the morality that The Three Laws imposes is the ultimate narrative voice in I, Robot.
Christopher Pike’s storytelling elements are somewhat different to Asimov’s.  On the surface he wrote a young adult book about a young woman and her weird VCR, but once you actually get into the book and delve into Rela’s world you see that is far from the case.  He uses the VCR as an oracle of sorts, allowing Rela to see one day into the future so she might do something as frivolous as make a bet with her adoptive father about a football game outcome or something as serious as rush to another city to save the lives of men that she doesn’t even know.  Morality is important in this book as well.
Pike’s target audience is obviously young adults, though many adults who grew up with him still read him.  On the surface his books don’t seem to be too complex or deep; they just appear to be a fun read with perhaps a few jumps involved.  The target audience for I, Robot, however, was naturally different.  That audience was meant to be intelligent, hardworking, older, and male.  Obviously anyone could read either or both of the books, though.
