The video embedded into the article delves a litte deeper into the support of the mental and emotional side of the HIV/AIDS epidemic. There is a lot of knowledge and there are a lot of facts, that are avaible on HIV/AIDS, but how to treat it from a medical stand point and how to promote healing, although those issues should be considered together, often were treated as seperate issues.
Even when people logically know that AIDS is no longer considered a death sentence, and that people can now live healthy, long lives despite contracting HIV/AIDs, because for so long it was engrained in the masses that you would die ill and alone, it takes work for clinicians to sort of break that stigma. 3 Diana Jones states in the embedded video that the reaction from 30 years ago, (finding out you're HIV positive) hasn't changed much from then to now. People still believe they are going to die and be unable to have children(2). 2 "HIV is a chronic, managable illness". This meant that patients were now able to consider things previously that were once not an option, leading very normal lives. This in turn, lead to the demand of more education.
I feel all of this information, both the written works, and the youtube interview, tie together the main point that even though we have 30 years of medical knowledge, research and education, there is still a very present stigma today associated with the HIV/AIDS epidemic.
One of the things in the article I found incredibly interesting was how the evolution of nursing HIV patients and the standards that were established from these practices, eventually grew to become standardized treatment and patient rights across the board, not just for HIV patients.
These are practices that are now standard in the health care industry. The revolution of the HIV patient care directly affected hospitals and clinics across the nation.
I can't really say that there was something that interested me "the least" because as a student looking to climb higher on the the health care industry ladder and with previous health care experience, this article is relevant on many levels to me personally, as a reader. I find the entire thing fascinating. The evolution of health care pertains to me on a deeper level. I will be dealing with HIV patients at some point as a Hygienest. Learning how this has impacted patient care is crucial, I feel, to the way that any clinician or health care provider, treats a patient.
One of the biggest issues I noticed while reading the article, was the historical lack of informed consent regarding procedures on colored people. This incited an epidemic of forced procedures such as sterilization on women who were in the hospital for completely different procedures.
