Another upside of offering disposal of used needles is that the syringe exchange programs are reducing the number of dirty syringes that are being left around in gutters, parks, public restrooms and other places. Finding syringes on the side of the road or in the trash cans of public restrooms is a reality that many poor counties face daily, and for people who work in janitorial professions, or fast food, this can pose an immediate threat to their safety if the syringes are not capped properly before they are tossed into the trash or on to the ground. Every needle exchanged for a clean syringe at a designated exchange site, is one less needle on the ground for a child or anyone else to find and risk accidental sticks with. 
Not only are they reducing the spread of disease and infection and reducing the risk of accidental sticks, but up to 97% of the Syringe Exchange Programs also provide access to resources and treatment for drug users. 
“It was found that IDUs [intravenous drug users] who had formerly been exchange users were more likely than never-exchangers to report a substantial reduction in injection… to stop injecting altogether… and to remain in drug treatment. Drug users who participate in these programs are 5 times more likely to seek treatment, than those who have never used a needle exchange.”
People who participate in and complete drug treatment are more likely to cease drug use, and remain in recovery. As a recovering addict, I can attest that seeking out treatment can be an overwhelming experience. Syringe exchange programs offer assistance with this daunting task and can help provide access to assessments and point addicts in the right direction towards finding professional help and the appropriate level of support for recovery. Many addicts (like myself) have ostracized themselves from their families and have no network of support. When provided with a support network and education regarding the risks of injecting drugs, safe injection and ultimately, recovery is more possible than without these invaluable resources. 
One of the biggest concerns when these programs were being implemented was the cost taxpayers would be paying. People were asking if it was an economically sustainable solution to a problem that has been plaguing the nation for years. “Currently, the lifetime treatment cost of an HIV infection is estimated at $379,668.” According to a fact sheet released by Washington State Department of Health in 2014, there are, on average 518 new cases of HIV/AIDS diagnosed each year in the state of Washington. If you do the math, that means each new case discovered every year, Washington State is spending approximately $194,400,000 for lifetime treatments of these cases. While I couldn’t find any documentation as to how much Washington as a state in its entirety pays for these exchange programs, King County spends roughly $1.2 Million annually on its program. 
“By preventing infections in just three people per year, the needle exchange program pays for itself. By preventing HIV infections in just 1% of IDUs in King County, the program saves over $70 million in HIV-related medical costs.”
