	An overarching theme of Lady Audley’s Secret is the shrouding of ill will with a visage of innocence and delicacy. The obvious subject of this is the title character, Lady Audley herself, but she is by no means the only one. This vice is also displayed, although less observably, in Phoebe Marks. At first glance Phoebe seems to be but a poor servant bearing witness to her mistress’s crimes, and is but a victim of circumstance in her abusive marriage to her drunken cousin. However, under some scrutiny the reader sees that she has a hand in progressing the story, playing a nudging devil, pushing those around her to her own liking. She exploits the calamities around her. While she was by no means a force to the main conflict, she was conniving enough to draw benefit from it, without regard to the wellbeing of those around her. Guided by greed and envy, Phoebe Marks exploits her mistress’s desperation, her husband’s alcoholism and depravity, and even Robert Audley’s good will to draw benefit from crime, while keeping herself clear of blame. 
	At the Launch of the novel, Braddon introduces Miss Lucy Graham, a seemingly humble private tutor for the children of Mr. Dawson the local surgeon. She is a charming and gentle woman, adored by all, but most of all by Sir Michael Audley, who is hesitant in his courtship on account of him being some twenty years her senior. When he finally asks her hand, we see that she is frank with him about her past.

From these lines, the reader catches a glimpse of the despair that filled Lucy’s past, and sees that she is clearly motivated by the wealth to be gained as the wife of Sir Audley. Michael Audley however, remains adamant about his previous assessment of her, that she is too pure and kind to marry for the sake of money, and builds himself the happy illusion he desires. This is the earliest scene in which it is hinted that Lucy’s innocent allure somewhat clouds her less than venerable sentiments. This quality sets the now Lady Audley on such a pedestal, that her husband is in a state of torn disbelief at her confession of bigamy and attempted murder in the concluding chapters. 
	It is in the Audley Court that the reader meets Phoebe, who is described by her likeness to Lady Audley. This resemblance is not only based in their similar looks, but also in circumstances as both came from a lack of wealth and were under the employment of Mr. Dawson. This is where Phoebe’s covetousness shows. 
