This document is a speech made by Irishman Robert Emmet in 1803 after he had been sentenced to be hanged, drawn, and quartered. This sentence came down from the court because of his involvement in the movement to make Ireland it’s own nation. The 1916 rebellion is often the most notable event of Ireland’s history in regards to its fight for freedom, but many may not know that the 1916 rebellion had deeper roots.  

Emmet begins his speech by explaining why he feels that he should not be sentenced to death. He tells the court that this speech is not for them because he understands that their prejudice in this matter goes too deep for them to be able to hear what he is saying. Emmet also warns the men of the court that they will face the same judgement as he and Emmet believes that the trip will be easier for himself then it will the judges. He then goes on to address the people present.

The thing that Emmet reiterates over and over again is that this speech is for his countrymen. He wants his words to find them in their time of need and lift them up to accomplish their ultimate goal, freedom. Emmet forcefully explains that he did no wrong because in his eyes, in his free country, what he has done is absolutely necessary. He is also worried that his character will be besmirched and he explains that everything he did, was for his love of Ireland.  He argues that he should not be guilty of treason because to him and others within his movement there is no wrongdoing. To fight for your country, for your country’s freedom, is the ultimate honor in his eyes.

He goes on to explain valor and how the men who will make Ireland free are far and above better than he and most certainly the judges that have sentenced him with dishonor.  Emmet urges the people to see that he will not submit to a foreign oppressor and neither should they. That not only should they not accept it, but there are other, valiant men to help them on their quest for freedom from oppression. The end of his speech is closed with his acceptance of his death and his final wish. Emmet’s final wish was that his headstone would not be written upon until his county was free.
