Katniss gets a parachute of medicine from sponsors and sees what kind of medicines the Capitol has access to while families starve in her district which shows further the atomization of the districts. Rue, a young tribute from District 11, takes care of Katniss for a few days after she is stung by Tracker Jackers and then later dies in Katniss’s arms while Katniss sings to her. This is a pivotal moment for Katniss because she becomes a symbol to not only her own district, but to Rue’s district as well by saying farewell with a three-finger salute that originates from District 11. Rue’s death leads to a revolt against the Peace Keepers in District 11 where citizens were being forced to watch the games. The revolt gets out of hand and the Capitol sends in heavy forces of Peace Keepers to quell the riot, another use of force. Haymitch, the mentor for District 12 tributes, begs the Game Maker to not kill Katniss after this incident and to give the districts something to hope for, young love.

This leads the Game Maker to consult President Snow and the President doesn’t like the idea. President Snow advises him to be careful and that if the Game Maker had personally seen Districts 10, 11, and 12 that he wouldn’t want to root for an underdog. This indicates that the President has a lot of disdain for the lower districts. The regulations are then suspended so that two victors may win if from the same district and Peeta confesses his true love to Katniss, not simply for the audience like before. This strengthens their bond and ties back to Peeta’s want to not change for the games or be a pawn. Katniss gets another break when the other tribute from District 11 kills a girl attacking her, saying it was for Rue. This respect helps to solidify Katniss as a symbol to the districts and will eventually break the atomization of the districts.

The end of the games leave the Capitol angry with the winners for showing them up and the Capitol doesn’t take this kind of thing lightly. The Game Maker is forced to kill himself and Katniss must convince the Capitol that she is so in love with Peeta that she had to do it, she couldn’t live without Peeta. The Game Maker killing himself shows the deviousness of the government and rulers, that he can be forced to kill himself shows how legitimate he believes his government to be, while the victors are beginning to believe that the government is not right to atomize them and use such force.

President Snow crowns the victors and tells Katniss her district must be very proud and he then watches the District 12 victor’s homecoming with ominous music in the background.  These cameras indicate another level of control held by the President and his government. The President won’t be letting this one go. The atomization used by the government in the Capitol has been very effective in controlling the society until the 74th Hunger Games. The ramifications of this atomization is the birth of a symbol in Katniss Everdeen. Atomization and use of force have previously helped to make the government legitimate and in the end will be its downfall.  
