Sponsors force participants to act a certain way, preference falsification in some cases because the tributes might later need their assistance in the games. It is interesting that District 12 gets the penthouse and District 1 gets the ground floor and having read the books District 1 is very intertwined with the Capitol and therefore more likely to go along with their rules and regulations. Districts 1 and 2 train their tributes in a special academy and win almost every year and this is in part to the engineering of the games where a winner can be chosen before the games even start. Bets are placed on the tributes which shows complacency to the system within the Capitol.

At the end of a four day training session the tributes are required to do a demo for the Game Maker and sponsors. Katniss is angered by the lack of interest shown by the people watching her demonstration and this shows how disenchanted the Capitol citizens have become with the whole event. Tributes are then given scores on how well their training demo went where Katniss is given the highest score. This continues to make her a symbol and President Snow is very upset with this. He asks the Game Maker, “Why is there a winner? Why not just sacrifice them all?”. The answer is hope. President Snow advises the Game Maker that a little hope is effective while a lot of hope is very dangerous. There is then a talk show with contestants that is a chance to get the audience invested in their characters and again encourages tributes to behave and put on a show for the sponsors. This is another example of the use of force by the government and possible outcomes of atomization of a society.

Katniss witnesses the audience of Capitol citizens cheering, jeering, and laughing at her talk show interview and sees what a show the Capitol makes of the tributes lives. Do they truly honor the tribute’s sacrifice? Peeta, the male tribute from District 12, tells Katniss that he doesn’t want the Capitol to change him or turn him into a piece in their game, he wants to show the Capitol that they don’t own him. This plays a big part in the way Katniss addresses the games later on. On the way to The Hunger Games trackers are put in the tribute’s arms which shows that there is an elaborate system in place to watch not only tributes but citizens as well. Cinna gives Katniss a mockingjay pin secretly before the start of the games which is significant because it shows Katniss that people from higher districts break rules as well. This is an example of what can happen when a government uses atomization and preference falsification to control citizens.

Cinna also mentions that he is not allowed to bet on the games and that indicates a system with strict rules and enforcement. The beginning of the games shows a technologically advanced system that would allow for strict enforcement of citizens. It is shown in later movies that the government uses the control they wield in the game on their own citizens. At one point, Katniss makes it to the edge of the map and is 2km away from any other tribute so the Game Maker decides to force her to turn around by using a wildfire and fireballs which end up burning her.  The fire directs her towards other tributes and the Game Maker says, “Ready the cannons” which shows that there is so much control over the games that the champion outcome can almost be decided independently of the games.
