“Decrepit water lines can fail” is a direct quote that shows that we have a problem in our country and Atlanta is one example of aging water pipe infrastructure in America. Atlanta’s water system in some areas date back to 1893, a portion of those pipes were made of wood and remain in place today. It is estimated that Atlanta will need 160 miles of pipe repaired every 5 years to keep up with the repairs needed at the cost of $16 billion. Pipes aren’t the only water infrastructure problem either. In Tennessee, there is a claim against a company for impacting the local river with nitrogen and a three-year study done by the Environmental Working Group found more than 300 contaminants in the tap water of 45 states. Contaminants do not belong in drinking water, pipes shouldn’t be made of wood from 1893 and it is up to Congress to help facilitate the changes that need to be made.  

Contaminants come from a variety of sources and the number of contaminants that can be found in your local water can be staggering to see. Common drinking water contaminants are chemical contaminants such as pesticides and metals and biological contaminants like Giardia and other bacteria. Agriculture and commercial industries are often sources of water contaminants. More specifically things like pesticide run-off, fracking, and mining waste often contribute contaminants to the drinking water system. I was surprised to find multiple contaminants in my local drinking water when I researched my own local water quality through the EWG’s Tap Water Database. This resource will even suggest water filters based on the contaminants in your local drinking water and based on what type of water system you use such as tap water filters, fridge water filters, and water bottle filters.

I used the zip code 83641 and selected the Meridian Water Department as my Utility name. The results showed that from October 2014 to September 2017 that this utility was in violation of monitoring for contaminants or reporting monitoring tests to state agencies as required by the Safe Drinking Water Act. Meridian Water Department is currently in compliance with federal standards, but there are three contaminants detected above health guidelines and ten other detected contaminants. The three contaminants above health guidelines are Chromium (hexavalent), radiological contaminants, and total trihalomethanes, which are all linked to cancer risks. However, looking at the numbers in comparison to State and National levels it is important to note our drinking water is much closer to the health guideline. Idaho is lucky to have recently received funds to improve their water infrastructure from the EPA while other areas struggle with their aging infrastructure.

Philadelphia is an interesting example when looking at their water transportation infrastructure. Philadelphia has water infrastructure that is over 200 years old with the average age of a Philadelphia water line being roughly 78 years old and was one of the first water and wastewater systems in the United States. They are careful to mention on the Philadelphia Water Infrastructure Management website that the age of the pipes are not the only significant factor in a pipe failing, but it is hard to argue that a 200-year-old wooden pipe was meant to last this long. Areas like Atlanta are seeing the aging infrastructure fail around them and it is important for areas with similar water structures, like Philadelphia, to pay attention to this problem.
