But in 2005, the ATF outlawed the "Akins Accelerator" citing that it transformed semi-automatic rifles into illegal machine guns. That is when a company called Slide Fire Solutions began designing their own version of the "Akins Accelerator" that was approved by the ATF, mostly because it lacked the recoil spring that Akins' design included. Akins transferred his patent to an outdoor sporting goods company called FosTecH Outdoors. A legal battle between FosTecH Outdoors and Slide Fire Solutions ensued as the two rival manufacturers fought over alleged patent infringement. They eventually settled the case in 2012. 

Following the 2012 litigation, Akins became "legally prevented" from discussing certain aspects of the bump stock industry. What he did make clear is his disdain for the ATF. Akins told Reuters in an interview, "They just destroyed our business." That is when the owner of FosTecH began working with Akins to develop a legal version of the "Akins Accelerator". The company's website says it "strives to be your bump fire stock specialist" and they even got Akins to record some video demonstrations of their new product in action. 

While much of the litigation remains shrouded in mystery, court documents showed that the ATF required all customers who purchased an "Akins Accelerator" to remove the spring, making the device inert, after the federal agency changed its mind about the legality of Akins invention. Ironically, you don't actually even need an "Akins Accelerator" or the latest iteration, the "bump fire stock" in order to mimic fully automatic fire with a semi-automatic firearm. In fact, Akins device was originally intended to improve upon a method of firing a semi-automatic rifle called "bump firing". 
 
"Bump firing" is a method of firing a semi-automatic rifle where shooters fire from the hip while keeping a thumb hooked inside a belt loop to provide an anchor point, then used the gun's natural recoil to pull the trigger more quickly. Essentially, a skilled shooter could fire a semi-automatic rifle at a rate similar to a fully automatic rifle with some practice using the same mechanics behind the bump stock. When a rifle fires, the force of the bullet exploding out of the barrel creates an equal and opposite reaction. When you put a stabilizing barrier behind the rifle such as your shoulder, or the belt loop method, you can use the force created by the rifles recoil meeting resistance to push the rifle forward just enough to fire another round if you keep your trigger finger stiff. 
 
The modern version of the "Akins Accelerator", otherwise known as the bump stock, was virtually unheard of by the average American until last year. On October 1, 2017, millionaire gambler and real estate mogul Stephen Paddock, 64, opened fire on a crowd of hundreds at a country music festival in Las Vegas, Nevada. Unbeknownst to anyone, Paddock had managed to transport an arsenal of 23 guns and thousands of rounds of ammunition into a hotel suite on the 32nd floor at the Mandalay Bay hotel and resort. Along with Paddock's arsenal of weapons, he also rigged a complex surveillance system using hidden cameras outside his room to monitor activity in the hallway. 
