Ask anyone about the Nazis and they'll tell you they were bad people who tried to kill the Jews, but most people don't know any more than that when it comes to the horrors that went on at Auschwitz. In fact, most people think that the experiments stopped after the Germans were defeated in World War II, but the terrifying torture of children by Nazis continued on into the 1990s. One of the victims of the torturous experiments is still alive.
 
Eva Mozes Kor and her twin sister Miriam were brought to Auschwitz as young children and the Nazi officers charged with sorting the new arrivals took a special interest in twins. Eva describes being brought to the concentration camp and a Nazi asking her mother if she and her sister were twins. Her mother asked if it was a good thing that they were twins and the Nazi said yes, so Eva's mother told him they were. Eva and her twin sister were immediately separated without as much as a goodbye as they cried.

One of the sick experiments performed on twins was combining them into one person with surgery.
 Eva floated in and out of consciousness for the next two weeks and would often wake up on the floor and try to crawl to a water faucet but never made it before losing consciousness again. "I actually made a pledge that I refused to die, and I would do anything in my power to prove Dr. Mengele wrong; to survive, and to be reunited with my sister. Would I have died, she would have been rushed to Mengele’s lab and killed," she said. "But I spoiled their experiment. I survived." Eva endured the experiments for nine months before she and her sister were liberated by Russian troops.
 
Eva describes being trapped in her own mind even after being liberated from Auschwitz due to the extreme bitterness and unforgiveness she held within her.
It wouldn't be until the 50th anniversary of the liberation of Auschwitz that Eva would find it within herself to forgive her tormentors.
Eva's sister Miriam died of cancer in the 90's but Eva is alive today.
While the liberation of Auswitch was the end of the experiments on Eva, it was not the end of child experimentation by Nazis. After World War II, hundreds of high-ranking German Nazis fled Europe to South America. Among them was a monster of a human being named Paul Schafer. Schafer grew up in Germany and joined the Hitler Youth movement at an early age before serving as a Corporal in the German army. When the Germans were defeated, Schafer fled to Chile where he joined up with other Nazi fugitives to create "Colonia Dignidad" or the "Dignity Colony". 
 
Colonia Dignidad is as if someone took a slice of Nazi Germany from the 1940's and transplanted it in Chile. The colony of Germans coexists with locals and the descendants of the high-ranking Nazi's still have their father's and grandfather's war medals and Waffen SS insignias which they hold as cherished memorials. But Colonia Dignidad was more than just a colony of Nazis, it was a cult. Schafer bribed the local government who allowed him to run his compound separately from the rest of the country and its laws. He used wealth accumulated during World War II which included filings from the teeth of Jews they killed, according to U.S. Army Special Forces veteran Tim Kennedy.
