Recently elected U.S. President Donald Trump also condemned the shooting and described Paddock as "a very very sick individual" and "a demented man with a lot of problems". He also praised the response of the police officers saying, "the police department has done such an incredible job, and we'll be talking about gun laws as time goes by." Well, it has been over a year since the shooting and the Trump Administration has signed off this week on a bump stock ban being pushed for by the ATF, and several gun control advocates and organizations. 
 
In the immediate aftermath of the shooting, the U.S. Congress called for assault weapons legislation that would ban bump stocks and the National Rifle Association (NRA) came out in favor of bump fire stock regulations. Both Democrats and some Republicans in Congress expressed support for the prohibition of bump stocks. Senator Dianne Feinstein introduced a bill to the Senate that gained 39 Democratic sponsors and two bipartisan bills were also introduced in the House of Representatives. Until last month, no official action had been taken by the federal government with House leaders referring the issue to the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, and Firearms (ATF). 
 
On November 6, Massachusetts became the first state to ban the sale or possession of bump stocks while consumer interest in the originally legal devices peaked. Gun manufacturer's stocks rose and gun shops selling bump stocks became the targets of harassment campaigns simply for carrying and selling the legal devices. 
  
 
On Tuesday, December 18, 2018, news broke that the Trump Administration has approved new regulations proposed by the ATF that makes bump stocks Federally illegal. The same day, acting United States Attorney General Matthew Whitaker signed a regulation banning bump stocks in the U.S. The ban is expected to take effect 90 days from the time it gets published in the Federal Register which could happen as soon as Friday. By March 2019, anyone in possession of a bump stock will be required to surrender or destroy them. Anyone who does not turn in or destroy them or is found in possession of a bump stock can be charged with a felony. 
 
The move by the Trump Administration to approve the regulation has sparked controversy among 2nd Amendment proponents, gun rights activists, and gun owners. Law-abiding citizens argue that they purchased the devices legally with their hard-earned money which was taxed. They argue that they then also paid more tax when they purchased the bump stock and now the federal government is set to brand anyone who does not turn them in or destroy them as outlaws. Opponents of the ban say that it is not fair that the government got their taxes from the sales of the devices and now they are demanding that customers destroy them without any compensation or refund.
