This past month James had self-trained himself on the new Kaviza platform.  This knowledge was essential for the technical support team so that the team would have a go-to person to answer questions.  This enables James and his team to better sell Kaviza for Citrix and Ingram Micro.

James then developed documentation to summarize the online trainings for his technical support team.  This documentation allowed for the team to answer questions on their own or in James’ absence.  This documentation better positions the Citrix technical team to sell more Kaviza solutions for Citrix through Ingram Micro.

Finally, James had trained his team on the Kaviza product.  This allows them to have more fluent discussions on the Kaviza product line with our customers.  In turn, the team is better prepared to recommend more Kaviza solutions for Citrix through Ingram Micro.

This past month James x had several con-calls with his Market Development team, our VARs and their end users.  These calls were made on a one-off basis for the more advanced Citrix solutions that needed specific and immediate attention.  Due to being engaged in these calls James had helped the customer better understand the proper Citrix solution, resulting in an increased probability of sale in Citrix products through Ingram Micro.
	
Ingram Micro technician Robert mentioned how virtual appliances such as Juniper’s gateways only run on VMware.  Appliances sold as virtual software are becoming more common and will be more relevant in the near future.  I would recommend working with these vendors to enable compatibility with Xenserver in order to expand the sale of Xenserver into these markets.

Ingram Micro technician Sean commented on how Citrix’s Xendesktop trade-up program currently does not have a concurrent option for their two-to-one model.  Customers have been asking for this option but it is not currently provided by Citrix.  I would recommend adding this option to the trade-up program to maximize customer’s options and expand sales for both Ingram Micro and Citrix.

Ingram Micro technician Sean had mentioned that a cross competitive information such as VMware’s View software as compared to Citrix’s Xendesktop software would go a long way in selling more Citrix software.  We get in several comparison’s each week requiring the software to be compared.  Official documentation from Citrix could be used to further the case in which a customer would decide to purchase Citrix over VMware.  In turn, this would help to enable more sales of Citrix’s Xendesktop through Ingram Micro.
