If you are planning a Bensonhurt visit to Brooklyn, there will be no difficult time to find it! Public transport is very accessible and is one of the most popular transport forms in New York City. Because Bensonhurt is a pretty city neighborhood, you will still feel as if you are in New York City. Please prepare to see all of the various Asian stores around you during your visit. In the past 20 years, Bensonhurt received an inflow of Asian residents. Because of this, you will see at least all block Asian owned stores as you are walking. There is the most popular supermarket and coin laundry. Coincidentally, these businesses are very popular among local residents. Supermarket food quality is great, the price is much cheaper, and finally it is very useful. Close to each other, there are four Asian supermarkets within 2 minutes walking distance. This only adds convenience of access to groceries. I do not say Bensonhurst purely populated by Asian residents. Here, the immigrants and its first generation American children are here, very diverse. Most of the large and popular business in the local area is Asian owned. In addition to these Asian Ownerships, there is a recently renovated park that is nearby. There is also a basketball court nearby basketball court, soccer, baseball, four handball courts, swing, playground for children, and water fountain for children. To enjoy water in summer. As we are in New York City, of course parks are very diverse. You can see all kinds of diversity here, and you can get along well. This neighborhood has many large buildings. The only building you found is for joint development or condominium apartments. Most of the living space here is the house of two homes. But most people are very nice, very noisy. Every day, you will hear a gas that floats on a car that runs by his own house or wake up in the morning. If you are planning to visit at night, you should be in your guard. This neighborhood is quite safe, but people are not predictable. You may encounter people who have no reason, bullying and no thief. I was bullied in this neighborhood through past physical attacks, but this was a year ago. Another recent incident stole the package. General things are packaged thieves in this neighborhood. Last but not least, New York City has a fine for people who are not cleaned after dogs, but people do not follow the rules here. Every morning you look at at least one dog waste or the way to the supermarket on your way to the station. My biggest pet PEEVE is a waste of floor dogs everywhere I go to this neighborhood. Be careful and clean your shoes!