"Where is all?" She asked to pass through the corn fields that met the horizon. "This!" I said that she knows that she shocking an open landscape sparse. She is from the town where the grocery store was a 5-minute walk from her home-she has never seen this many square in her life. I was taken by the spread of corn fields, I shared it with what I liked to grow in the rural Ohio, and at that moment, she knows who I came from anywhere I was. Driving two lane rural roads, you will reach quarry filled with water. In the past it is a small development I live. The house is mainly composed of bricks and stucco. All houses have at least half acre land so that everyone can bring maintenance pride. During spring, there is a wealth of flowers planted with Midwest trees that change to weekly seasons. All private roads are filled with a good, old-fashioned car wash and the best end Mercedes-Benz luxury cars shining in noon sunshine. Taking the way towards my gray stucco house, my Korean neighbors are always outside with a friendly face. He can hear the lawn mowing and singing on his mower ham. Everyone in the neighborhood laughs him, but he is always a wonderful person with a genuine and a unique history. He grew a year and he loses some of his wit as an old man. He was a doctor in his past, and it was usually blended with herb and his John Deer Turn Turn Mower. Finally, you will get to my house. In Side Yard, goose is rich and chased by our terrier. Backover, there is a small flow that feeds the quarry. Here you can hear Bullfrogs, Stream, and occasional "Moo" from nearby farms. Beyond handmade tree bridge, natural growing trees, herbs, and wildflowers are full of oasis. Here I spent most of my childhood. The building of the building tree is "hunting" animals (mainly chasing them)), always, and usually there were nearby children available for friendship. My little town's winter may be brober, but there are no beautiful things. The garden changes from the green sea to the empty wilderness. The lively pink and purple flowers contained the wood of a purple flower turn into a bark's barren skeleton. When blessed with snowfall, winter Wonderland is overnight. The backyard is lined up with snow angels and snowmons made by my sister. My sister and I fought frequently as a child, and during the winter, snowballs were the weapon of our choice. We usually make a large IGLOO Castle to accommodate weapons. Our proprietary Little Wonderland was a place pretending to be no other issue. We were just a child without worrying about the world.