I live in a typical suburban area in the small southern town of Tennessee. In order for me to get more traffic on the street than hope, it is a consolidated street with the highway in two states, but it is a quiet residential area. There are many people who have been used by most of those living in the neighboring neighborhood, because they are moving. Garden work and most parts are your own busy people with other daily housework. In winter, we slip the hill on our side road. As we live at home at the horn in front of the street, we have long been able to go out for a long time, and people are familiar with the car. Every time we look at a strange car, we tend to take notes. Some neighbors walk for exercise and simply take their dogs. Children play their bikes and you will play everything you expect. We work from home, so we are a lot at home. Our 4, my wife and my wife and two daughter's age 11 and 14. So I think everyone says that everyone is used for us. We sometimes get out of the rain in the rain. During our back deck, once outside of our grill, it is always barbecue, all the comfortable scent. If somebody cutting grass is always around this area, you can hear the lawn mower almost every day throughout October that the grass has finally grown and stopped from March. It was originally a miscellaneous forest, so there are a lot of shade, but many of the autumn leaves are always always, there are many trees around us. So, if the means is scraped, burning the lobe every year. Like the scent of burn the leaves, that's a wonderful sign that autumn has always arrived. Recently, we felt like that alone, so many winter did not bring it to speak. Our garage is on the back of our house, so we are rarely used, do not use the entrance door of our house unless someone on the door knocks. I sometimes want to work with my truck and other project garages, and when I have a garage that the door opens, I feel that I'm tuned in my neighborhood more. On a holiday, it is quite quiet around this area. Thanksgiving will look at some of the neighborhoods of the town and visit some of the nearby families, and there will be a park where you can park anywhere in this year. This is the same in other holidays such as Mother's Day and Christmas. All everything like I live here. If it is not the street, it will be perfect.