I live in a small Midwest town outside the suburban area of ​​major cities. Close to me, you can write on the east side of the town as the most economically blessed area of ​​the town. The value of the property is low when most homes are owned or owned by low-income people. But that is not attractive or uncomfortable. My neighbor is generally a kind person who says smiling when walking on the way. The criminal rate is still more common than the other part of the town and is still low. Several gunshots, including at least one murder, some of my homes are several violent crimes in the past 10 years. The neighbors next to us lose their sons while shooting outside the area bar last year. Fortunately, our family is directly, when we forgot to bring it inside, the occasional item is not affected by crimes other than those disappeared from our veranda. Generally, the town I lived is deeply affected by "opioid epioid epi-epidemic" which influenced many parts of the United States. Many lives were lost by overmant administration of fentanyl. Fortunately, there are many resources in my town, including NARCAN training sessions, including NARCAN training sessions due to some of some addictive rehabilitation centers and poisoning people and friends. Despite these issues, this town has many positive attributes. My son's elementary school has excellent staff from the principal to the teacher and support staff. Despite having special needs, he has not faced bullying in a very positive atmosphere of any school, and he loves it there. We have positive PTO that multiple events planning throughout the year to promote family involvement and education progress. As more than 20% of our town's population live below the poverty level, elementary school offers free breakfast and lunch to all students so that they do not go hungry until now . No Cost for tuition, consumables, and field trips, if a child or family is not treated as "less than" the fact that it can not be paid. The city assembly and the staff improved many improvements to our town's appearance, such as Repaving roads, landscaping, and urban parks of repair. Unfortunately, most of these improvements have been placed in the center of the town, all of the shopping areas are placed, and most traffic passed on the west side. I live on the east side of my neighbors, it tends to be ignored. Overall, I live in this town and enjoy. People have enough shopping options to meet my family needs (both small and medium-sized enterprises and large retail stores), but the school is great, generally friendly, and in our house It may not be much worth It, but it is comfortable and sufficient. Our family lives here for over 16 years, and we can not imagine other lives somewhere.