In my neighborhood, it has been constructed double since the cul-de-sac. They are intermittently arranged, as they appear to be of an individual house, it has been placed at intervals. The only difference is, they are each painted white porch and green metal roof and yellow. Most of the people, but not all, are friends to each other. We are standing at the end of some of the night and Chit Chat decided to small children not for a while driveway in advance of the neighborhood of play with their toys, we'll take you to choke or its kite. It is very mechanical / computer full of the world, it will be refreshed all of this today. It is like stepping back in time rather. We are surrounded by strengthening the field and trees by the swirling blue sky and white clouds. The only downfall? Because we had to go to the shelter, this season, we are to have experienced the warning of a tornado, for the first time, last night, we, in fact, hear the siren of an actual tornado directly below. Sure enough, you grabbed my little things dog along with some of the pillow and my wallet, I would have found me in my bathtub. When my big dog does not want anything to do with the bathroom, the more nervous and barking in the strange situation in the living room, while tension. The neighborhood was quiet except for the sound of large hail fell all the ground game. The road after the storm literally, was Mashi steam from a change in temperature. We went from 92 in just a few minutes to 75. It dissolves immediately hail when you hit the hot pavement. As I looked up towards the sky clear, it came out the sun, began to rain. Double rainbow is apparated. I have to hand my camera and ran to the house. Quickly snap a photo to share with my Facebook friends and family. They are, as I., the street in front of coming home from the place where they were when the part of the people struck finally thunderstorms, remained in another hour quiet, I was in awe. And it is like the usual cooking dinner, it was business as outside of moms and children. Such gentle neighborhood for this gal that move the form NH to NC recently. I've worshiped the southern accent talking with people. As everyone to me, two bedrooms, has two bathrooms apartment. Although all of the houses look the same on the outside, it is the same in the interior of all not in the apartment. Some are very small in practice. It does not make sense to me. And walk along the maximum of the field behind the place where I live love to mosey down to the pond that is not made for swimming. I have've seen deer, in the morning, you can hear the giant bullfrog singing his song. This is a great place to live 40 minutes just outside of Charlotte in the town. Every morning, you are welcomed by the sound of the crowning rooster from the surrounding farms. It is something rather like living in a village of its own small community. We also, you, as we know that he is there, you have a donkey that can be heard braying in the evening in the vicinity of the farm. I was lucky to find this gem of the neighborhood.