My neighborhood is full of culture. It is placed on the hill surrounded by buildings in a historical sense. I live in a 7-story apartment building from an old live theater, and blocks under the hill are cool small arcade bars that various types of people gather in a warm summer night. In many cases, the lines of people waiting for obtaining, especially on June and July. It is the nearest urban park. It is quite big to think about the part of the town where it is sitting. Park is concrete and tall stairs poured on the wall. During cold winter, homeless people set their tents in a small column along the sidewalk and along a wide staircase. It's snowing, but it's raining, and winter violent pours tend to keep warm. Combine their tents, put them closely closely close to the center of the town, not the center of the jungle. They are also the distance between the only family of families, and they can bathe and take a shower. What I like about my city is not a historic nature beauty-a historic proud building, a building that is sparing through various levels of hills rolling towards the sea. My neighborhood I love what I love is the culture of people. You see, it was the most visible neighborhood of the West Coast for violence on the hill. You are still trying to clean the street, the federal officials and DEAs and clean the street. People, they do not forget. In these days of transplantation, the story from generation to generation is still passed from power generation. Even if it is considered one of the sophisticated "food" throughout the city, people work hard. They still care about their blocks in their blocks what happens in their city. If you are white, you should not walk around the hill after the darkness. Really, I believe this warning is reminiscent of the old days, and swallows the sour taste of social adjustment. Perhaps it is so dark enough to pass a "caucasian girl" completely, or I recognize me as one of my own people on the hill, and our country is constantly our country I know the person who is bothered. Race discrimination, cultural adjustment, and assumptions are made from ignorance and fear even in cities that are considered to be the utopia in cultural melting panes. I know one thing: There is a house on the hill, no matter how far. I felt that I was walking on their street at night, and faster and rarely hit me a jacket. It is a place where Laundromat owner was open, as I was able to request a mobile phone when I had no place to escape from the rain. It is a place where I was sitting in sitting, where I can not see it visits, it looks like the front of the store in front of the night's bigest rigorous cathedral, see me in my eyes. Beautifully valuable.