My neighborhood has dirt, dirt and more dirty, and is Pisari in the middle of the high desert. Unless someone is actually experiencing here, they are probably Dona â € TM T really look at brown feelings and when you find the lawn, you are the grass I know that I spend a lot of money. When I lived here in the first 90's, the house spread widely widely. Now the same is true for many new additions. Honestly, this place looks like more cities daily, but most places are in the same way. Most of time, people are very friendly, but like just the city, you have your good part and bad. In my neighborhood, II is surrounded by a gentle elderly who thinks that it is a good neighborhood. This place is a shop that has few stores and smart and final food, with a fairly many chains. If you want to use USCale, I have to move without having any natural food or store of any such property. I will say not to be based on all official population statistics The most pronounced job in my town is construction. I still have a large number of open space in build, but I think this is for this town that has not yet been developed. Things like things like things, me, me, how they are now. I leave the big city, I'm not keen to go back. This is a field where my full-time work was placed, and I am a dry wall and T bar installator. I like my own house different animals. People come to a high desert for many reasons, not the desert itself 's naked beauty. Protecting high desert climates and terrain, and it is a realistic of various types of wildlife, I tried to challenge the ecosystem. High desert human residents need to take time to learn about non-human resident who share this environment to a safe and harmony. My family and I adapte very well to wildlife. I have three children, and they are all I'm writing this, and they are trying to catch out of different samples, I'm wearing a lizard or dessert bug. As a limited attraction, we will bring some. Also, Victor is a good place for the family experience the desert. It can generate another experience. Sunbarner Dino County Fair: If you can, we plan to visit your visit to the annual event every year. Fair enrich your visit with the mix of the right activity and the way of fun Victor. Look at the snowy mountains and pop close Wrightwood to take some winter sports lessons to complete your visit. Are you interested in the history of nature of high desert ecosystems and culture? Victor Valley Museum contains geological and paleontological specimens, native American artifacts, and historical objects that convey the story of Victor's society and industry development.