The general area I live can be explained as a suburb of your typical cookie cutter. In particular, for my neighborhood, the existence of the housing owner's association is very obvious. When entering, the single family maintained can not see anything. Thank you for your housing owner's association. All the front garden is very similar. Beautiful grass, some decorated pebbles, and quite short private road small patches. Frequent trees can be seen. Everyone has two car garages. You will see new paved concrete, as you keep driving through the neighborhood. Despite the many different families living here, the road is in good condition. You will not find such holes and something here. Most homes are single stories, but sometimes there are two stories. We do not set typical mailboxes that will be expected to be a single family home. There is no individual mailbox before each house. Instead, it is like an apartment with a large number of mailboxes at the end of the street. Everyone uses the key to access your specific mailbox. And there are two larger lockers for the package. Again, thank you for keeping this uniformity. My home location is at the extreme end of the nearby cities, so my neighborhoods can be explained as a suburbs of parts rural parts. As a result, we all have all the lands. There are multiple community pools with more than one person who lives here. It is well maintained and gated. Then there are various walking courses that you can walk your dog or you can go in the evening. You don't have to visit the park to exercise your exercise. Neighborhoods are sizes enough to make it just run around it and get more than enough exercise. Most of the community consists of retired people. It is a very safe area and everyone looks like each other. So if you mix it, there are small amounts of middle-aged and young professionals. In the city, at least the population is amazingly great-but also has a touch of a small time town. We have the majority of amenities that we are reliable for you. For example, there is one mall. It is not huge, but it worked. For me, it takes about 15 minutes of driving to cherish anywhere, but if I do it, I am at a lot of different stores I choose from. We can get everything from the high-end grocery store that you can get organic food, packed small choice of items, and has naked minimum staff to continue cost. As a whole, my neighborhood is safe and well maintained and is quite typical. There are a lot of nice things like pools and walking courses. And we are not right next to shopping, but you will jump in the car and go to any key chain you want.