There is no sidewalk I live. Everything seems to flow downward, and my house is sitting at the top of the nearest hills in the neighborhood. People are calling it "the hills", so many Joggers like running it during their daily work. Everyone walks through the road because there is no sidewalk on my street. The road is pitted in some places and can feel a dangerous little to drive. Some telephones and electrical lines were launched around the block in the grinding view. That's because it gets down a lot and storms, and other chips often defeat the power line and make sure that the constant repair looks like the checkered and patchwork-y. There is a tree of all tall evergreen trees everything you are looking at. However, the people here hate trees. They strive to slip as much as possible, as they interfere with the view of the sea. That's why it is very high on the hill with the second story of a huge glass that occupies the mountain view while looking at the mountain view. When the water appears to be likely to be lit from the bottom, it is gorgeous around the sunset when the sky turns orange. However, cloudy is cloudy, but you will see most of the sunlight through cloudy. Most days are cloudy and moisture. Moss will grow with all things that can be done: roof, car, and handrail. I once left my car and left on my car tract for one month, and when I went with it, it has changed like fur with green and moss. It took three hours to drop everything. There is no many children around where I live, but there are only a few blocks. Most of my neighbors are over a year, and many of them retired. Instead of a child, people have a dog. It is common to sit in the lawn's lawn or walk along each other. When you open the door or window, you may be scarce to your home. I just visited my living room once at a time and I had to retract the front door. The rabbit runs wild around that area. Some of them are good size, and the gardener digs the roots of the plant and hate them as they dig a sea hole on the lawn. My cat loving them and hunted most of them from our neighborhood. We also get bird's normal assortment: small sparrows and humans and occasional hawks and eagles may sprinkle until the nearby grains are chased. There is no store around, but if you hikle downhill to the waterfront, there are several restaurants offering fresh seafood. There is not much beach there, but rocks along the coast are fun to stick to water. The Bay itself is not very wide. You can see the opposite coastline even through the mist on most days.