The first thing must be understood about Portland, Oregon is a definition of "strange". The unofficial townslogans on the back of the building acting as a joint, bar, music venue, strip club, and skirt, and the law above these efforts is "the strange of Portland". For some, this remembers the 90's and the central portland in the 2000s, creative, unique subculture, and so high, so high, and cheaper, cheaper, cheaper, For others, it is a call call-Come to Portland, and people still be strange, but this time as compliments. The constant construction of the rich California and the constant construction of the apartment to accommodate these California are still strange. It does not mean that strange things always accept, but it means that it usually accepts what is not accepted. Bizarre does not mean that modern convenience and modern fight are not. Buy most of our things from China, like other countries. There are millions of ways to be unusual, but there are many normal for Portland. Portland has yoga and hipsters and business professionals. Perhaps strange things, we are taking all of them just by seriously receiving them. In my neighborhood, like many Portland neighbors, colorful homes, flowers and herbs, vegetables are back on the street and there is a summer free box. The free box is a traditionally cardboard box, but someone is removed, but they are also vinyl bags and boxes. They are magic and are perfect treasures for amazing people, amazing quantities. The free box tends to have clothes and books, but they can have anything. The magic possibility of walking near the southeastern Portland is all about Portland. In other words, it is a variety of strange things between thousands of Portland to me. People who live in people I have never dreamed of picking up clothes from the sidewalk box. Those people go to goat Yoga (Yes, real live lady and yoga) and wood games (soccer teams in the city). Portland is full of people who love all kinds. Portland is full of people pursuing our dreams, and it is a dream to pursue our dreams while it takes too much at the bar. Yes, Portland has a drug problem. Drug problems are mental health problems (their roots), and it tends to be raining constantly in most of the year, and horrible clouds appear to be contributors. Portland also has a homeless problem. Homeless population is a social service provided by social services and is better than most parts of the country, but our service is not enough like the whole area. Non-homeless population waves between care and hate. Now we are not strange at all.