I just moved to this neighborhood, just at that time I tried to start a second grade of junior high school. I was difficult to make friends first, but I was close to someone who lives two homes from me, and I decided to get another man on my street life . Both of them live there any longer, but there is still a memory. The same people who lived here when I first moved here, most parts are still here. In my neighborhood, it is quite similar to your average neighborhood neighborhood. I have a lot of two-story homes in my neighborhood. When it is warm outside, always heard every week or for children who play outside. The neighborhood is a quiet one week quiet day. I have never had a problem with one of the neighbors. You are left around this area unless you need help. I have ordered multiple packages online, and I have never got my pouch off robbery package. I feel like I can trust my neighbor. One and two separate from my house are out of my house. I have a lot of memories there. I have played a basketball, soccer, baseball there in the neighborhood before. When I erobs the nose playing football, I also became one of my worst memories there, but good memories are worse. When I go to the spot, it is always about time with me and time with this kid. They are much younger than me, still playing with all the types of swings and slides and staff. However, the idea of ​​going to the park is excited. Park is now very nostalgic for some different reasons. Very diverse in the neighborhood. You search for all kinds of nearby foods. Just one mile radius will be able to find Chinese, India, Mexico, and Italian restaurants. However, today, many people just use apps such as grab hub and DOORDASH just by just getting delivering to them. The most popular food location is a fast food shop, but you can get almost all suburbs near them. There are many pizza places. Here is the store contains all what you need. There are near multiple dry cleaners. There is a popular Jewel OSCO grocery store popular in Midwest, such as CVS as Walgreen. You might have made some handmade Indian dishes and mood to buy some ready-made Indian food, and if you ever have a store owned by India, some stores Well, diverse. Overall, I am a fan of my neighborhood. Looking at read and news on social media, others need to pass with their neighbors, part of the horror story thanks to me for me.