I live in the rural America, especially small town Michigan. You are going to a small tourist city from farmland. There is no larger urban mall, WAL-MART, target, or Applebee. You need to drive to arrive in a place where you need to go. Nevertheless, I live in one of the most beautiful places in the world surrounded by water. My "city" is surrounded by water. One side of the beautiful lake in Michigan, and the lake of the lake of other lakes. Every time you go, you can find the beach to immerse your toes. My neighborhood reflects the idea of ​​a small town. The house is not stacked with each other. They are not a cookie cutter house that has become the same. They are older homes, some of them were updated and remodeled that some of them were older. Most houses have a basement. All underground you can see from the road. Many of the neighbors have old aluminum siding. I am at home all colors that can be imagined in a block surrounding our house. Most houses have yards. A yard with trampoline and play set. Several people have a garden and a fence for their animals. House is similar to middle America. I work hard and work hard to create a life and grow my family and raise my family. Any day you will see children running the city up and down. You will also walk to walk with a dog, walk and walk the roller blade. The neighbor knows the neighbors, and you can recognize who is not or not to belong. You will see someone who is pleasantly laughing, even with someone baking outside or waving from several blocks. The lawn is keeping in a decent condition. Anyone is not stacked from falling. Green grass is kept and kept under control. If people have plants and bushes, they are continued to be truncated. It is not a beautiful neighborhood that you want to drive and watch a nice house, but you can drive and you will be a good place to grow your family I think I can do it. It is quiet, peaceful and safe. Only looking on the fact that people around the world want to indicate that people all over the world are very good. This is a safe place to land at the end of the day. There are countards and prisons within walking distance. Health department is next to it. The city recycling center is sitting down and serves services provided by residents around the city and residents. We have a baseball and softball field nearby. Our small town airport is next to it. You can play outside or inside, and you can listen to a small engine plane golb to take off and land. You can walk to get ice cream from local ice cream location, and if you are really in it, you can make it downtown from near the house. My children can ride a park where their bicycle is only 8 blocks. Living is a really great place.