Well, I think I can share what I know about what I was here for about 10 years. First, when I first came to my neighborhood, I was pretty sad. I came from Riverdale to Stockbridge, and I do not intend to lie, I missed them because I missed them. When we moved to our new neighborhood, the place for housing, better high school was considered "not get". For many years, I got used to it, and some new friends, and some new enemies were also made at school. Except for Mr. his children and Glen, and with the exception of Dennis for a little bit, it was not any way to know our neighbors over the years. They were fun people who could almost consider their families in some way, and I really appreciate them. I remember when I went to Glen's wedding (they got married), my mother, dad, and my sister (they reborated) As the, I am looking forward to someday. Give wealth and my future wife to the queen life. Glen's wife, Vada, Veda, take off a white little strap on her legs, threw it, caught it! Unfortunately I did not catch the flowers! We all danced at night, and I enjoyed having a good time with Marsharei, one of their daughters. I have never seen her. I hope she is moving to a bigger and better. Now, I have a GPS now, but I may take many time to explore it and is like a maze. I went so far, and it is when I was arrived together with my friends and Kajua and Curtis. We were used to play video games, and we enjoyed life as much as possible. Sometimes I go to the park and enjoy nature. Recently gives the peace and sense of calm to me. Also, I brought my bought from the poultry and practice my balance, and I can bring my Bocken wooden sword if I can do. I enjoy enjoying what I want to do. There are also basketball and tennis courts, but I do not have tennis and basketball for a long time, but I'm still happy if I pick it up and go to another. My father grew up, and my best friend grew up to tennis with a tomb, and we always spent a great time. But we always enjoyed it. I am enjoying in this neighborhood and I think there are many stories, but these are really stuck to me, and I think that I have not come to the best!