My neighborhood is interesting. Most of the houses are a single family, but if it is very scaled, there are some houses that are being split into 2, yet attached. My home has a small psychonde on the left side of the small garden and the house before it. It was an American dream that lived in the suburbs, so it's the most favorite of others, I remember the time before. Accept the people of this country, and now this dream after it looks like it looks off. However, when I call the people visiting the people who are still living with my neighborhood and more, yet, we are still held on it, and it is still increase. People who are used are a little yard maintenance cost, but they are not used for them, but as if they were around their surroundings, the car and two are still young people's play There is no surprise like OptoMistic on your driveway. All of their existence. While stirring nostalgia with old residents, public schools I was here are still standing and still thinking the future of the candy today. There are few churches, so far, the sky is full, and the basketball court is still full. Every house looks different, but I feel the same way. The only Arab family in the neighborhood is very possible, and there is a large supermarket called super "A" owned by large YEMNI families. Most of the residents are African Americans. The street is large, and the children stop going to pass through only the car and play football. Most of my neighbors have been here for generations, and almost everyone can tell past stories that everyone knew. It was a scallop school, but when Hollywood makes a karate kids movie, the children have heard, the pharmacy I heard, the medicine is good and everything, or so, the kid wants to be a kid kid Did. There is also a small cinema that plays an old movie at the crowd discounted by youth DISDANE due to the lack of reloses, but it is a small price of the night payment, you think it's a small price, you are a preferred out, of course there is no kid. It passes through my town and has a single highway. But the exit and entrance are our town next. I petitioned for our town for our town and was after completion. The young people supported it while rejected. Since it has a highway in our town with a ruins, it seems that the city council seems to be saying the city assembly eventually to reject the request. They are built new high schools, and we are trying to decide the mascot for our town. I think that the country's accents and Cyborg and log cabins are then the highest expression of my town.