For the first time I've heard about my place, I was listening to podcasts about people who became missing. It was a little surprising. Most of these apartments in this area went more than thousand dollars. I had never heard anything about that story, and I didn't have any of my friends. Maybe it is a struggle. I know that I cry some of my friends sleeping at night. Things are expensive, but we learned how to spare over the years. You like the dusty scent of the flea market toys and moth clothes. You smell a lot in the adult period. You may start smoking, or you may be too familiar to your condition. However, free markets are always claiming their own. Adult scent is a dusty magazine that was stacked on the closed piano. It will make it yourself in the leather and you will stay even after you wash it. Here, there are three recycling stores within walking distance. If you start from a distance, you can have two charity recycles, libraries, rare bookstores, and cucury shops. Downtown is dark, car and people will fill the street every morning, but you have never heard of recycling. The store is silent, any number of people and cars have passed. It is a good place to lose afternoon. Every year there are more. Cars and people flooded it. It is a developing city, they say. It is one of the largest online empire for electronic commerce and delivery shows the headquarters still growing pain. It reminds you of New York. Everything and everyone are set to their goals, and everyone is not the whole of you ask you. You can be alone, quiet and independent, and people will leave you alone. It does not seem to be south, it means that you care about it. You are not in someone here, really. You can catch up your shell as long as you want, and the city crashes and rolls back like a beach wave. It is a lively place. Something is always happening during the second floor between the next pianist and two amateurs vocalists. In a sense, we have stranger apartments and friends communities. We gather for our needs and celebrate your birthday, funeral and help each other when we can. In a sense, I am lucky here. I like most of my neighbors, and they treat me quite well. I clean myself and leave food. And they do their kindness. I brought them to them. I'm glad to see them. I live in a large duri nig modernist sparring, but I am a person like my neighbor who feels like I'm completely not ruined my life.