I am near the university I attend nearby and I live there. There are a lot of apartment buildings, but there are some restaurants and bars that are very cheap to go near. One of the bars just have changed their names, and it is more expensive to rise, but it is not actually the worst service quality and drinks there. Most people are good. They are children at university. As the apartment houses are not very expensive, they are low in income. There is a lot of children nearby because there are elementary schools within walking distance of my apartment. I do not know my neighbor, but I do not want to really want. Since they suck many weeds, the management of my buildings passed an airfraid unit from their doors, and I found that my boyfriend and I was very interesting. It is almost insulting. Buildings around me are usually older old but they may have renovated the interior. There is a new new apartment of a little brand on the street, but I do not like them because I know that the construction performed on them was not particularly good. They are built cheaply, but the rent is expensive, but I think it is a fraud, but since it is near the campus, management of those buildings can take it. There is a restaurant about 5 minutes from where I live, and it offers food only on paper plates. Then it is the gas station where I have heard. However, thanks to the money from the city, the road is rejected last summer, there is a big big sidewalk, central surrounded grass, and there are many on the side of the road, and the area is a small Nika. However, the building of the apartment where I live is covered with a tuf. Because they lowered some of them, there are some stumps, but there are many trees living under the road. It is a set of wooden lines, and other apartments behind my apartment. I live at 42 locations, but it is 43rd street soon and it is not good. The sidewalk is really worse, and it looks like a barbara, and most buildings it is shabby. There are many trees on this street, but it is probably hiding how the building looks like. Most crimes in my area occurred at the apartment complex, but I can not be accused only those. There is an apartment across the street from me, and it also has a lot of transient population with many crimes. But I think I like the place where I live. I have a margin to buy it, and there are many convenient amenities nearby. I am particularly within walking distance, and there are two bus stops so that I can easily reach the store.