My neighborhood is a quaint small town. This is not standing out of the other South Carolina, but it has a major impact on the agricultural sector. Johnston is known as something that Peach Capital, the town boasts proudly to a welcome signboard. This is mainly composed of farmland by either peach tree or cow. Houses that are not placed in the main part of the town are widely separated. There are two stories with the heat and gray shingles of the summer heat and gray shingles with all of the help combat. More than in the case, these housings are not located near the road, but enable front fields to be used for back animals / crops. In the main part of the town, 4 ways have a single stop light. It is here that only the store is located in the whole town. There are three places where you can get "Fast Food". Hong Kong, Single Family Run, Fiesta Mexican Restaurant, or Gary, Small Humber Gar Chain, Pizza Stores, but It is called Maxwell and Harford Drugs before it closed There is a very small family-run pharmacy; Funnily sufficient, they have a small, but expensive food store called independent food alliance known for Cherry Coca Cola, which is the best they sell. , More generally known as IgA, it is the only grocery store in the whole town, but many individuals stop to pick up one or two items; mostly one of their majority is Batesburg I prefer to travel to Walmart in Leaseville. The most popular shops in the city of the whole grocery are dollars. This store sells a vast array of daily items, and from the moment you open until it closes, there are many cases, busy, possibly furniture & moms, execution very small furniture stores! Certain women are well known in the community. Even if the store is a johnston for the annual annual, we will deliver the buying furniture 2 migrants! Clark cut and small pet slopes called dog cabin are attached to the building of the furniture store. All of them, physician and veterinarian practice, provide a number of services such as nursery schools, boarding, grooming, grinding nails, bathing, etc., such as located away from the main part of the town. Although the fully equipped to support Johnston's residents, they are very small practicing both. There is a single elementary school called Johnston Elementary School. Students must attend both of the middle and high schools in the next town when the fifth grader is completed. In the town, the park, however, they look forward to going out, and to provide a family with more opportunities to attract more visitors / potential residents, create a 2.5 acre recreation area. Currently not technically. Certainly there are not many. What cinema is spot, playground for children, areas where you take a pet, or a wide variety of restaurants, a bowling alley, does not exist. Despite this, it is a small, nice town to be able to pass by the blink of eyes without being realized!