There is always a mountain. In the northern part, we hold witnesses every dawn and dusk of the sun journey. I forgot about those problems or how I caught notification to the morning work and life, they are not shaken, there is no competition, and the hardship of life. And, I am most emphasized and damaged to be seen, and when I turned on it, they are some strength to go on me, Lending one day in time, and rest my anxious soul. I first moved here when I started a mountain on the north side of the campus first, my school. Certainly, universities have their own share of my heart and breathtaking sights in ponds and trees, have their own share, but it is really a mountain that holds the throne. The rest of the town is beautiful by itself. There are innumerable cafes that stuff home at many times of caffeine. One can walk or take a little bit to the downtown downtown area, and you can wrap it in an ancient aura with a brick brick named off the restaurant and office building. As it is adjacent to the city, it is a show of the town of the town outside the outskirts, such as much more and vitality. 1 By passing a library, this is a quiet little town, so this is not always sustained for many blocks. This two-way method of the nearest atmosphere as if it is a form that is invited to explore is really giving a Wonderous atmosphere to this city. This makes it easy to create many important memory, respectively, in connection with a specific part of the town. It is all, whether you have a rusted swing in the park and the park after the night, or whether the university has been running through the downtown to catch a movie at the fantasy theater because it offers tickets. It is sad that all places are bound to being in life, it is also a lot of harsh memories at home. The pond can especially be a fit place for reflection, especially in the morning, not only a session in 2 in the morning. The latter of which is, while looking at turtle, ducks and insects. And have more experiences, I have some contributions and roles for my own sense of my own sense to navigate this Lives in my life is called life. Because I reached the main street, I walked past the past and suburbs of the pond and the small house. It was the sun drawn along the way, shining the brilliant light on the palm tree, and then I was walking around the north, and I realized the north. . They were always fixed, they were there. Heavy Duty Yoko Mountain graze blue and yellow sky than any building of the horizon, and as if it was not a word, I stired my sense of patience in me.