You may pass it to a look-all after all, one of the residential areas behind the shopping strip, assuming that there is a live location. At least, I do not want most people to live. Even if you go behind the old, you'll abandon the hole food, and the only summer's stints for the reunion of the family will be walking back to the hotel behind the hotel you are occupied every year, and you are the whole You can find a pleasant community. Among these communities, on these paths, a handful of apartment complexes-a little bit, carefully decomposed, carefully disassembled, carefully disassembled and set next to the road downline Russian nested dolls It is located next to each other. As we do not focus too much, the first apartment you come will be news for some pretty unpleasant transactions-appearing, everything is deceived later I can do it. However, the apartment next to that, and two possibles next to one side of one of them is all other worlds that almost anyone knows in this area. A quiet, student started sleeping day, 7 o'clock yawning, coffee and putter road with hand coffee and putter road, sleepy set of buildings standing horizontally-is a satellite campus of community college from those complexes. The commuter is an open scope that the iron gate recognizes one by one while shaking their windows with their windows and uppooking to hold traffic on a high school attendance. The T bones of the road on another residential road at the rehabilitation center for people who have broken bones in the park or unhappy situation on one side. A famous lazy furniture for the treatment center's proud of the cheerful porch and the warm, thick summer air and a famous lazy upsheeting fans with mass production. Children are delayed by bee and turned over the green stem and run in the grass in the grass in the park, crossing the green stem, the patch of the flowers on the road. Old retired people are a teenage girl with scowling and playground equipment on their skateboarding teenagers To do. Nail Salon surrounded by swimming store stores, with the rights of the swimming stores-has cheap food, but it seems to be too busy, and there is a place of sushi in the strip mall next to the park. Strip Mall Beauty-All at once, get a manicure and eat a tense chicken while eating your pool towards the season. The location of the Frozen Yogurt is one of the types of DIY there, and you believe that, they believe that they do their states on their skateboard and vape On the other hand, sweating a cup of frozen yogurt covered with topping, the park clutch is cold and looking at teen young people. Some Sleeping South History There is no change in almost nothing, and time-in the neighborhood of the problem, the Americana slice.