When asked to explain my neighborhood, my answer is convinced that it is somewhat unique. Other people who correspond to this are the most likely home owners who have their own individual lives, but my situation is the TAD bit. I'm thinking of becoming a campus of a university that I will continue, and people living in my dormitory are thinking about becoming my community. I also think that I would be near my surrounding campus. Despite this speciality, my neighborhood shares a more customary ideas and some common relationships about the neighborhood. Like a conventional neighborhood, the neighborhood you stay with houses, people, shops and parks. Let's start by discussing "home" that make up our neighborhood. Before I start exploring my neighborhood house, it would be best to clarify the kind of house in my neighborhood. Near my apports, actual homes, and dormitory housing has three types of housing. First of all, in the apartment, there are usually 2 to 4 people in any room between 2 and 4, and there are about 4 to 6 rooms on each floor. The most common architectural types can accommodate about two-storey houses, so 20 facilities or people living in each building live on average. Second, it is an actual house that can be used for those who rent a belonging to school. Usually, these are usually a 2-4 bedroom setting that has a graduate living in them. However, since they are not so efficient, one handful of these types of houses are spread through the neighborhood. Finally, there is a typical dormitory room that houses 100 students. Among these, there are two people share a room with some exceptions, and it is the most common type of house in my neighborhood. Covering the housing, we are ready to go to people. My school is proud to itself diversity, which is reflected in my neighbor's makeup. There are people from all cultures and ages living in my neighborhood. Most of the professional staff lives in the house where you are in the neighborhood, but a newer student stayed in a dormitory style house, and older students will stay in an apartment style housing. People in this neighborhood can not just be justified by talking about them, so it would be best to proceed with my neighbor shops and parks. Because my school is a really self-independent area, it has a store and a single park. The store is a combination of diet options and schools that will be seen in other areas and their own brand clothing and grocery store stores. Therefore, what you need is in my neighborhood boundaries! In addition, my neighborhood park is a playground for a variety of people nearby, and it keeps releasing clean and criminals with all members of my neighborhood!