Because I live in a large city, my neighborhood is very diverse. Residential areas are distributed in a variety of executed commercial areas of companies, and a run attempt. While others are locations of various stores, restaurants and entertainment, some of these businesses consist of offices. There is no shortage of stores to shop for new and eaten. Some stores are large, but well known, brands owned by large companies are also becoming more and more popular with small boutiques. They are not located in a variety of shopping malls, and they are often not enclosed at many points of interest, but they often are within walking distance of the district that would have been quiet and calm , Line. There is also a couple of parks near, and I have been aware of these parks frequently with their young children. Speaking of people, it is really quite pretty of the diversity thereâ € TM s in my neighborhood. In one little place, we have a collection of ready LGBTQ + communities, orthodox Jews community, and refugees and immigrants from the former Soviet Union. They sometimes divided into their small communities in the city, but there are more individuals and more individuals of various races and origins that span more out of my neighborhood. We have only a few miles of Korea, known as Korea town, Chinatown, Little Armenia, and Many. However, just a few miles can prove that it is a very long drive. Only 10 miles of distance can occur, sometimes, especially when rushed, traffic, for 2 hours. Most of my town is almost anyone, but walk anywhere. The specific location of interest is inevitably close, but the city is huge and people generally do not like to commute on foot. As a result, we also have a part of the worst traffic in the world, and just about everywhere you can find parking spaces. Large apartment buildings have been able to build, in recent years, in recent years, as it is soothed that it has been added to the city. It seems to be a popular destination, but many residents move on the road and are disappointed with many people, and even car outlooks. There are many different types of houses in my town, however. A life or life of life in a large apartment building. Residential areas are composed of homes of various sizes, and smaller apartment buildings and apartments. While others contain duplexes, some properties contain a single-family house. This does not have a deficiency without diversity with regard to the options of the housing, but it is true in the neighborhood. Similarly, neighbors are composed of people with various ages and saying completely honestly, I am not familiar with most of my neighbors. I have a lot of memories from my neighbors who were close to my age, and other people from the neighborhood and other friends with some friends, but it is really these days It is not a tight knit community.