It is fairly obvious that Parson Adams is most himself when he is identified with his original quixotic predecessor.  Likewise, it is fairly obvious Joseph is most himself when he is not identified with the supposed virtue of his sister.  What is the type from which Fielding draws Joseph Andrews as a character positive, chaste, yet sensual virtue?  Joseph’s identity recasts the main theme of Petronius’s Satyricon.  In the Satyricon, the main character has somehow affronted Priapus, the Roman god of sexual potency.  One who affronts Priapus is cursed by that god never to enjoy sexual fulfillment, and hence is considered unmanly, effeminate.  Fielding gives a few hints to Joseph Andrews that his hero is in some way suffering from Priapus’s curse.
In England, a likeness of Priapus was often used as a scarecrow to frighten off birds from ravishing fertile fields; Joseph Andrews’s first role in the novel is a Priapic effigy to scare birds.  Also, his sweet voice prevents his indulging in that most manly of English sports, hunting, because it distracts the dogs from their business.  Parson Adams suggests that Joseph needs to curb his unmanly sympathy for the passions.  Fielding identifies Joseph with effeminate details at various points in order to suggest that something is frustrating his Priapic enthusiasm.  In other words, Fielding is mixing two ‘types’ in Joseph Andrews’s identity: Joseph wants to enjoy natural sexual fulfillment, as well as be a virtuous man who is a model of chastity.  Perhaps, nothing illustrates Joseph’s intent for sensuality and virtue working in opposite directions better than when he catches a glimpse of Fanny Goodwill’s cleavage.
Fielding unites these many origins of the novel when he brings many characters together at Lord Booby’s country mansion, and resolves various themes of the novel presented by the origins of characters when he discloses each character’s identity.  Fielding comically strips affectation of virtue from the ridiculous characters of Beau Didapper and Mrs. Slipslop; he replaces the ridiculous ideals of Adams with the Parson’s amiable virtue; and he finally lets Joseph enjoy the natural delights and blessings of Priapus while retaining his virtue.  In light of discovered identity, this discussion addresses a scene analysis of book four, chapter fourteen.
During dinner at Parson Adams’s house, a traveling peddler tells assorted characters that Fanny’s true patronymic is Andrews, and that she is Joseph’s sister.  Since Joseph and Fanny have publicly announced their intentions to be married, it seems that Joseph must be stuck with the unnatural identity of a chastened Priapus.
Joseph, Fanny, the peddler, and Parson Adams proceed to the Booby house to tell the company there the news.  Afterwards, Lord Booby suggests they all go to bed and sleep, and verify Fanny’s identity on the morrow.  In a comic translation of a scene from Don Quixote , several characters experience confusion of their identities.  First, the effeminate fop Beau Didapper pretends to be Joseph Andrews.  He affects Joseph’s voice, whispering outside of what he imagines is Fanny’s bed that he is coming to enjoy the pleasure of her body.
