There is something extremely ironic about the way that Chaucer chooses to close this scene of dream interpretation. Rather than end with any focus on the actual content of the dream, Chanticleer and Pertelote are distracted by their love for each other. So much so that Chanticleer claims that “I am so ful of joy and of solas/ that I diffye both sweven and dreem". Whether this is intended as a somewhat wholesome and romantic resolution or an act of prideful ignorance is unclear. However, since the couple in question is a pair of chickens, it seems wise to lean towards the former. Chaucer even punctuates this point with this amazing little joke of a sequence. He describes Chanticleer “on his toos he rometh up and doun/ hym deigned not to sette his foot to grounde/ he chukketh when he hath a corn yfounde/ and to hym rennen thanne his wyvves alle/ thus royal, as a prince in his hall". Chanticleer and Pertelote have just finished a conversation that contained allusions to everything from Hector to the biblical Daniel, and Chaucer releases all of this intellectual tension with a scene of chickens acting in the silliest and most chicken like manner. By doing so, Chaucer reiterates his point that nothing of value was learned from this act of interpretation, because eventually instinct takes over and all acts of higher exploration fall to the wayside. The narrator says "Thou were ful wel ywarned by the dremes/ That thlike day was perilous to thee/ but what that God forwoot moot needes bee, after the opinioun of certein clerks". Chaucer seems to be implying that the natural way is something that can’t be influenced, although the last line seems to imply a little sarcasm in that statement. What does not seem intended for humor is the fact that Chanticleer’s act of interpretation both completely ignored the source and was ineffective at helping him avoid his fate.  
Now that all of the information is laid out we can really begin to synthesize the evidence to get at Chaucer’s true message. First, as established by the tale’s status as a frame narrative, we can see Chaucer challenging the audience to contemplate on the nature of storytelling, and the ending of the tale directly challenges the audience to take what is important from the tale. Once again, we are left asking, what does Chaucer intend to for us to grasp from this tale. This is where the dream interpretation scene is critical. As established earlier, Chanticleer and Pertelote are both mistaken in their approach to the situation. Chanticleer overextends the importance of dreams and turns them into portents. He forges a personal connection with his belief and uses any historical figure he can find to justify his belief, rather than the contents of the actual dream. Pertelote makes the exact opposite of his mistake when she ignores dreams because she does not see the practical value in them. This is ironically punctuated, by her providing an equally ineffective solution to a misunderstood issue. Chaucer makes it clear that both of these characters represent the extremes of interpretation and are both mistaken because while they both search for meaning or value, they both miss the actual content and suffer because of it. With this in mind, the ending of the tale is given a new application. When the narrator says "But ye that holden this tale a folye/ As of a fox, or of a cok and hen,/ Taketh the moralite, goode men". This message can now be taken in two ways. The audience can understand the surface message to beware of flattery and vanity. Or, they can understand the moral provided by the scene of dream interpretation, and not get lost in trying to find the moral and pay attention to the content of the story. Content that is entertaining in its own right and intrinsically valuable as a story intended to entertain a forlorn audience.
