I believe in my experiment the sellers, will become aware of this kind of practice and implement it when posting prices. However, the number of units sold will still be higher relative to the traditional posted offer market because it is very unlikely the sellers will realize they can maximize their prices by selling their units for a more expensive price immediately. Buyers on the other hand will most likely not be able to detect this kind of price gauging.
In respect to supracompetitve pricing, such as the case with monopolies, a seller who cannot successfully maintain a monopoly price would greatly benefit from offering a voucher.  As previously stated, price gauging can lend to the monopolist minimizing any loss revenue while not losing any customers. That is, if a monopolist can at least somewhat determine the market’s demand curve. Since the market is only defined by a single seller, it seems as if you would not make more of a profit margin. However in practical terms, it allows the firm to keep customers and prevent any purchase withholding by the consumer.
In posted offer markets, duopolies will still be able to exploit the market by posting prices above equilibrium levels, but the implementations of a voucher may limit implied cartels. Large retailers like Wal-Mart, whose competitors are retailers such as target and Kmart can undercut competitive prices through gift cards and attract more customers.
	If any form of explicit communication is allowed among sellers, the use of any voucher will surely be frowned upon, but prices will still be higher than if there were no pre game communication. Casual Pre-game communication between buyers and sellers will greatly affect how both perform in the experiment. If a buyer feels they have anything in common with any specific seller when conversing with them, they will feel loyal to that seller and will be more likely to buy units from that seller at a higher price than if there were no pre game communication. If the seller is aware of this he/she will price their units higher than usual and if the seller has the ability to offer a voucher to the buyer, the seller will have nearly maximized his potential earnings.
	If my hypothesis holds true, then it can be shown that most people act in hyper rational ways to try and maximize their payoffs. Giving the opportunity to provide vouchers allows sellers to become even more strategic about not only the current period, but also future periods. Sellers that offer vouchers can use backwards induction to maximize profit margins. Buyers on the other hand, may fall victim to feeling loyal and being irrational when their voucher comes close to expiring. If my hypothesis does not hold true, it may show that individuals aren’t always hyper rational and that sometimes there may behavioral reasons way people don’t always follow assumptions made by economic theory.
