Whether it’s one god or many, the ultimate conclusion one can draw from both religions in respect to the number of gods, is that no matter the number, both followers of the religions expect some sort of mercy for their worshipping. 
Before moving further, it is important to note that Roman life in general was more public and exposed then life in contemporary times, and ancient Roman religion was no exception. Roman religion was a state religion. It understood by many scholars that private roman life was unhidden from the public. As a Roman citizen you were part of the community: One would attend Festivals and Ludi, or games, to show how devoted one was to the gods. These festivals and Ludi were accompanied sacrifices and prayers. These Ludi included theater performances (ludi scaenici) and circus games (ludi circenses).
	These festivals were observed on specific days of the year. The Roman calendar (established by Numa) ran from March to February. The Romans were very superstitious and held these festivals in times of need. For example, there were the Megalesian games celebrated on the 4th of April and ran 6 days total. During that time the mother of the gods, Cybele, was worshipped (Ancient History Sourcebook). The Romans, desperate to find victory against Hannibal, “carried the stone simulacrum of the goddess Cybele to Rome, they feted her with a procession and games”(Gill). 
Another festival was that of Lupercalia. This festival was held on February 15th. It was a celebration that observed purification and fertility: “ People swept clean their houses and then went outdoors to watch the young men, who were chosen to purify the city, run by. Large crowds of spectators gathered in the Forum, and the women present hoped not only to be purified, but also to be made very fertile”(Shelton 381-382). It can be inferred from this quote that by being purified the Romans were ridding themselves of any evil or sin that may have been manifested in them, homes, or city. In addition, the Roman women most likely were hoping that the Roman god Ceres (god of grain and fertility) would bless them with prolonged and healthy child bearing ability.
	Conversely, in contemporary Christianity (at least in the United States), there is no state-influenced public display of ritual. The separation of church and state clause prevents this from being the case. However, there are other ways in which Christians gather together to celebrate and worship God and Jesus Christ (which can be considered one god known, along with the holy spirit, as the Holy Trinity). Some of the events include Good Friday; Easter Sunday; Christmas; and, of course, at a church.
	Christmas is a very highly recognized Christian holiday. During this even the birth of Jesus of Nazareth. During this holiday there are Christmas carols, gift giving, specially cooked dinners, and there are even decorations, such as the Christmas trees and Christmas lights. Everyone is in “the spirit” of Christmas. There are parties and there is much celebration. This kind of festivity is comparable to ancient Roman religions festivals and ludi: ludi such as the theater performances and the circus games. There is a lot of positive celebration.  
