Unlike ancient Roman religion there is no ritual sacrifice in modern Christianity. However it is a common belief in Christianity that Jesus Christ sacrificed himself as the ultimate sacrifice to “please” the Christian God and thus ridding mankind of sin and bad omens. Or metaphysically, one can consider him/herself as sacrificing themselves for god’s will and mercy. Christianity can be conversely represented with the phase “ Do ut des” which translates to “ I give so that you may give”. Unlike the Roman gods, the Christian god (at least not when referring to the events in the old testament) is not as violent and vengeful when sacrificial offerings, such as giving ones self to Christ, are not present or performed incorrectly. 
However, prayer is a type of common ground between both of these religions. In ancient Roman religion prayer is usually followed after sacrificial ritual. Prayer, like sacrifices, as used to gain a favorable relationship with the gods. Let’s examine an example of a prayer:
	If one were to read this prayer it may seem like a typical prayer about animalistic sacrifice on the surface. However, when juxtaposed with Christian belief, this excerpt can exhibit a kind of prayer that a Christian would recite to the Christian god. A lot of prayer in Christianity deals with honoring god and essentially giving oneself to him. The pig is merely a representation of oneself as a sacrifice. However, unlike the ancient Romans, Christians are generally not expecting god to directly make their lives better immediately. Instead, Christians assume that they will be rewarded upon death in the afterlife.
Another crucial comparison is that of prayer and the receiver of this prayer between these two religions. Where ancient Roman religion stresses a more confined family oriented prayer incentive (purely for oneself and those immediate loved ones), a lot of prayer from Christianity stresses not only oneself but also others around him, even out of ones immediately family. Christian prayer is more altruistic: 
This excerpt of a prayer quoted from sir Francis Drake examines the loss of faith had by mankind. Here he begs God to bring forth a new restored faith in Christianity. A restored faith for all of mankind not just for troubled Christians.  As stated earlier, contemporary Christian prayers are asking for a more metaphysical reward. They are not asking for a successful harvest, or that a victory may be found during a war. 
Most prayer in Christianity comes from their holy scripture, the Bible. The bible acts as a bridge between god’s will and the minds of the bible’s readers. The bible’s text is interpreted as a prophetic device. It is interpreted by mostly anyone, and one can come up with a conclusion from the text.
Similarly, in almost equivalence to the Bible, were the Sibylline Books. The Sibylline books can be compared to the bible because they also act as a prophetic device. These books were interpreted by the Quindecimviri (priests), which gave a more official interpretation of the book. This is because the Roman senate appointed these Quindecimviri to consult these books.
