 This expedition by way of comprehension and intimacy, won multiple awards. 

    Charles Sanford is a egocentric Los Angeles resident who performs as an automobile dealer, who is at conflict with his own life. As a young teenager, he used his father's car without his authorization and as a consequence, he was imprisoned for two days on report that his father announced it stolen. At this point Charlie gains an understanding that his alienated father passed away and gave him from his last will and tribute an exceedingly large bed of roses and the car that he used without permission, mean while the remaining of his fathers will of $3 Million proceeds into a trust fund to be issued to someone other then him. Charlie was aggravated by this and settled on a plan of action to look into this circumstance. To get to the point this "someone" is Raymond, Charlie's unrevealed brother, an autistic philosopher who lives in a world of his own, he takes residence in the Walbrook Institute.

    Throughout this movie Raymond’s autism is one of the complicated issues, Charlie has to deal with; but everything else is not that straightforward as Charlie anticipates. Rain Man gives lessons to people about confidence, awareness, and endorsement towards each other, it also helps to interpret and accommodate those people with autism spectrum, and illustrates that people are not always invincible, and destined impulses of fate cannot always be outplayed. Movies are the best exemplification of how precise psychological concepts have to be embraced by people. Rain Man is a magnificent film about complex interconnection between two brothers, where one of them is encountering autism and the other is suffering a vigorous desire to have an immense amount of money. The conceptualization of autism, conservatism, and confidence are expressed in the movie; the eccentricity of this storyline is that one concept is closely attached to another concept, and the repercussions of one concept effects substantially the evolution of another. The concept of trust appraisers in both main characters of the movie. Charlie, is anxious to become rich and does not take many endeavors, He only trusts himself. He is convinced that trusting other people will make him weak; this is why he manipulates people with his charm in order to make them trust him. Raymond has trust towards Charlie, this is why he acts in accordance with Charlie’s orders. The concept of conformity, presented by Raymond, includes performing in a specific way to accomplish certain goals and interrogate Charlie to meet own desires.
 
    The examination of psychological concepts in the movie Rain Man supply me with a chance to understand that the quintessence of our lives is not about luxury and satisfaction. Tom Cruise’s character is a beneficially great example of how conceited people alternate due to conditions and explicate us to open our eyes on human issues before it is too late. Dustin Hoffman is the character, who ideally presents the concept of autism and the oppositions. The characters and director of the movie Rain Man did a brilliant pursuit in explaining the concepts of autism, trust, and conformity and guiding people with instructions on how to live this life appositely.


