My group members and I designed A Social Networking application that grants solo travelers the rights to communicate and come together. I suggest that you consider our business proposal, this design is one of a kind. Our intentions are straightforward and uncomplicated, we will successfully create an exclusively flawless accessory for unaccompanied tourers, It is unsurprising that there are plenty of apps established to link travelers together, in spite of that our mobile application will be an assisting hand to solo travelers, in a way that they can meet each other. Bitterly there are a lot of apps constructed to connect travelers with others. However most of the apps I came across, have a goal of connecting travelers with locals instead of other travelers worldwide , we basically chopped and changed a few features that were unnecessary, and adjoined our superior ideas that are of higher quality and that can provide customers the chance to communicate with other travelers and so they can meet new people and make friends to travel with, connect with other travelers and explore cities together. Our app would just need to take the downfalls of these apps and make one that works. 
     To launch our invention we exchanged views about opposed proposals, each group member listed conceptions and ideas about divergent Applications or Online Programs they nominate. Persuading objectives were categorized, and convincing details were assembled. A recapitulate of the suggestions were pretty similar, many of the suggestions fell between two choices, an application or online program that helps people prepare for interview or important business meetings, and the second choice is a travel application. Deciding between these two extraordinary projects wasn’t too bad overall everyone agreed on an identical goal.  
     The team sympathized that the best option for our group project is A Social Networking mobile application that allows solo travelers to communicate and converse. We basically have a goal of connecting travels together so that way if they do tend to meet on vacation or otherwise it can be fun. There are a lot of apps constructed to connect travelers with others. However most of the apps I came across, have a goal of connecting travelers with locals instead of other travelers. These apps also have slight issues or just need more time and support to become more popular and useful. Therefore our groups intelligence and hard work can make this happen.
      We Compared and Contrasted many similar applications with our ideas, For example Travello which was labels as tinder for traveling. Solo Travelers which has glitches and mishaps. These applications had there flaws therefore they did not work out as imagined, we want to recreate the same idea just without the deficiencies. 
    As a persuasive interpretation and to bring my letter to an end,  I want to make it clear that you will not be disappointed in our business proposal, our customers will be very excited and satisfied with our services, since we will be the major reason that will cause their comfort and happiness while traveling you will have literally no self-accusation’s due to the fact that our  proceedings will be nothing but magnificent and ideal. As a team, We will not only provide our customers the benefits to communicate with other travelers and meet new people across the globe, but we will also make their traveling more comfortable and even safer. 
