   Daycare teachers participate and educate children in daycare settings. Daycare teachers not only care for their students but they teach them as well. Depending on their level of education they can make a fair amount of money.  These skilled individual may be entry-level childcare workers with only high school diplomas or preschool instructor with college education. Teachers must be understanding and creative, Their lesson strategies utilize play to be associated with children and inspire them to learn. Certifications and state license may be required in child care. As a daycare teacher the duties are to absorb learning opportunities using a child’s native tendency to play.  In addiction to teaching, these daycare assistants must present diverse basic care needs, inclusive of granting genuine nutrition, conducting cleaning duties and dealing with behavioral issues. Being employed at a daycare is both physically and mentally stressful but its also a learning experience that will hold a place in your heart forever.

   Being a daycare teacher the pay is around $30,000, usually less than that, which is half the Pay and benefits of a kindergarten teacher. As a Daycare teacher you witness lots of crying, and bathroom accidents, you also feel fully responsible for the children, which can be sensitively heart wrenching. Being a daycare teacher is also physically exhausting, and emotionally difficult. The pay just isn’t enough to have to deal with all this. 

   The Job hours as a daycare teacher is great, nights and weekends are mainly off, its great to keep balance between your personal life and work. After being a Daycare teacher you feel as though you become a miracle magician, being able to control a room full of kids and get them in to focus quickly. It will become very easy for you to stop a child from crying because you have experiences and know how to district them from their tears. So overall working at a daycare isn’t all that bad, yes the pay isn’t great but you learn from this job, therefore the good out weighs the bad and the bad out weighs the good.
