    In The Future of Whiteness, Linda Alcoff requests us to think critically about the definition of whiteness, and how white people as a communal group might fare in the advancing. 
White identity, like other identities, is not a isolated similar involvement but requires a complex variety of elements such as classification, gender, beliefs, nationality, sexual preference, language, enlightenment, along with others. , Alcoff justifies, white identity, in all its complication, continues to be a useful logical tool.

Alcoff contends that whiteness is not outside the authority of historical events and should not be apprehended as an inconsistency to the law, or as she claims, “white exceptionalism.”
    Alcoff proposes that we abstain from restricting the future of whiteness and impairing the possibility for alliance by putting nonessential obstacles on the “fluid alterations” people come to recognize themselves. 
Alcoff enlarges her reasoning to whiteness alerting against uncritically taking white identity as a substance so historically different or uncommonly universal, uninfluenced by historical and social occurence. In the concluding chapter Alcoff contrasts two major points on the future of whiteness. On the one hand “eliminativists” both on the right and the left control under a post-racial inception of race as an illusion. Where the Right contradicts racism outright, the Left is prompt to remove the decomposing and delusional class of whiteness.  

 The Future of Whiteness does not be evasive about the ancient and exciting terror of white supremacy, white benefits, and other structure of white control. Neither does it claim to know with assurance of what the future posses. It does, nevertheless, disapprove to treat whiteness as critical and naturally racist, and this viewpoint questions the future of whiteness. 

Alcoff admits many reasons why white people usually try to separate themselves from white identity:
Whiteness is not entirely  a principle or a logical category for Alcoff, however, and this is why its difficult to be avoided. White people are trying to perceive and, in some cases, re-understand who they are.  
I agree that it is very difficult to fit whiteness into a truly inclusive democracy at this point being, but it may be possible in the near future. 
Building a mindset in many People that being white is usual in comparison with other races, having this mentality and point of view, this is why I believe that whiteness is beyond the point of fitting into an inclusive democracy unless this analytical reasoning is abolished. 
