 I never imagined to live the life I am living at the moment, life had it’s ups and downs, but what doesn’t kill you makes you stronger, I am stronger. I am turning 29 Years Old in August, I feel as though I witnessed all the colors of life, I really haven’t but I did learn that life isn’t as easy as we think. As children we played house, who would have wondered that life would be the complete opposite of how we planned it. Wishing we can go back in time and relive our childhood memories I am glad we are now grown. Life can be beautiful you just have to appreciate the goods and the bad to understand its true meaning. 
     On August 2, 2018 I was married to not only my husband but my motivator and backbone, We are also soon to be parents, I look forward to meeting my baby and I have high hopes that this baby will be one of a kind. My goal is to put my biggest efforts into providing my family the best lifestyle there is. It will not be easy juggling through School and being a wife and mother. A strong women will do everything and anything she wants and needs. Nothing will hold me back, I will do all I takes to reach my goals. Achieving my goals is to make my Family and mother proud. 
     I can offer my hard work and fulfillment to this course. I never took a course that included the benefits of taking this course. Taking this course will teach me how to prepare for writing in a professional path, As mentioned in the syllabus “The goals of this course are to strengthen your writing skills for a professional setting, build your understanding of the writing process, and set you up with a portfolio of writing that you can use to showcase your communication abilities whether independently or in teams” I am pleased to take this class because I want to strengthen my writing. I will be offering my hard work and fulfillment to this course. As a student I am great multitasker, also If I put my heart into something I get it done with the best outcomes. With excitement I am ready to put my head and heart into this course. 
