      The Department of Education is theoretically located in the central part of North Philadelphia with students, teachers and city schools occupying the area. The well known location provides the resources and lucky chances of a substantial, various and active urban center. The pursuant of their mission is to authorize children and their groups through education, they perform duties for nearby neighborhoods, and school districts across the territory, and the domains.
       The department makes provisions to the point of departure of research and comprehension the students and supervisors in the specialization require to address the stand in need for children and schools today. Their awareness and the new information they produced advise decision- manufacturing at the elevated levels and furnishes instructors and school human resourced with the utensils they need to give strength to educational implantation. 
      The Department of Education, Upon my visitation to the page the context used made it clear to me that Early Childhood Education is one of many areas of study in the Department of Education. As a high school student, It was very easy for me to navigate through the programs to see the similarities and differences between them. 
     Throughout the visitation of the Early childhood eduction area of study, it was obvious that the information is adjusted with a reader-centered approach. There are URL links, Bullet Points that list accomplished and orginazed fields that graduating students employ in. Not only was the website very straightforward and easy to read and navigate it was persuading and convincing. 
     All plans of action in the college focus attention on dispassionate experience and make use of primary means of studying about the declaration and taking possessions of demanded skills and accomplishments. All pre-service educationalists and interns in other fields waste times in the network of collaborating schools with which they have exceptional relationships. As stated on the websites, The dedication to  enhancing educational practice locally consists of  “ numerous collaborative projects with the School District of Philadelphia and other school districts surrounding our Ambler Campus to provide ongoing professional development and opportunities for advanced education to teachers and administrators; high standards for admission to and completion of certification programs in order to ensure graduates well prepared to address the needs of diverse students; exposure to different cultures and communities of thought through courses in the arts and sciences as well as carefully targeted field placements to enable new practitioners to communicate more effectively with the communities they will serve; research aimed at improving professional practice and increasing student achievement; special programs designed to meet the personnel needs of schools in the region and provide professional opportunities for graduates, including certification programs in hard-to-fill areas such as math, science, Spanish and special education.” 
