This document is intended to identify the general work to be done by Acme and ensure a plan is in place to verify that tasks can be accomplished as needed. We have hired resources, but have no solid management plan. This effort is to develop a plan to allow for responsibility to distributed evenly and for it to be managed uniformly.
This task involves planning and executing projects which may include elements of all other tasks and ultimately involve additional resources.
This task is that which identifies direction for product lines and assists in the conceptual phases of development alongside programmers. In this way, it is a bridge between Marketing which would identify new possible fields of involvement and programming. 
All of these process result from Sales and Marketing. Which may deserve evaluation as a process that occurs at a higher level in the company. The Project Management task represents the actions needed to verify that these processes work together with other tasks in the context of accomplishing broad goals for end users.
I would like to consider giving Ali a raise and asking him to consider that his new task is to filter the incoming tasks into those that he can accomplish, those that are requiring “escalation” to me, or those that are suitable to help Sara increase her knowledge of the software. Acme is increasing their price and I think that it is maybe worth looking at an option that will see more use, maybe this would be a good time for this to happen
I think that involving Alex and John in support tasks – simple ones to start – is critical to leveraging these resources. Alex has done well in his work with Linn and is gaining good confidence in the websites. Bob may need further inspiration to be involved with customers. I think that part of this can come from a considerable drive to get some of his applications out there for use – his tools will be useful to all end users, and his knowing this will be a big step, I feel.
I would like to consider – as discussed – offering Sara an earlier evaluation as incentive to travel in support tasks. After the trip, I am feeling confident in her ability to handle challenges. I have overheard her represent the company with a positive disposition and she is effective in many tasks, and especially when given time to evaluate the situations with which she is presented. As with me, this knowledge can only grow with more exposure, and I think she has the initiative to be successful here.
