Not only is the electric car revolution here, consumers have more choices to make between makes and models. One closely matched pair worthy of comparison for 2018 is the Chevrolet Bolt and Nissan Leaf.  Both are sporty looking 5-door hatchbacks that look very similar from a distance.  But that’s where the similarity ends.  There are significant differences in price, range and features that require consideration. 
Remember the days when all the talk was about miles per gallon?  With electric cars, it’s about range.  Range is a very significant factor as it has as a great deal to do with how far one can drive without recharging and, perhaps more importantly, the total cost.  It stands to reason that the more lasting power a batter has, as measured in kilowatt-hours (kWh), the more it is going to cost.  Electric cars, like cordless power tools and other rechargeable technologies, are the same in this respect.  This is one of the major differences between the 2018 Chevrolet Bolt and Nissan Leaf.  
For those where range is a major consideration, it would be money well spent.  Others in more close-in urban environments may think otherwise.  This is one decision that needs close scrutiny. It is noteworthy to mention that Nissan is planning a Leaf model in 2019 with a 60 KWH battery that will be more expensive and compete directly with the Bolt.  
Like miles per gallon and range, horsepower (HP) becomes kilowatts (kW) with electric cars.  In this regard the Chevrolet Bolt is significantly different with its 150-kWh motor as compared to the Leaf’s 110-kW motor. 
This also translates to the Bolt having a noticeably quicker feel for the driver.   As noted by a Green Car Reports comparison of the 2018 Chevrolet Bolt and 2018 Nissan Leaf, it is safe to say that the Bold is peppier.  This report went on to say that with battery weight below the floor, both cars feel stable and grounded, but the nod went to the Bolt’s steering feel. The Leaf was viewed as being a little numb in comparison.
Given the wide arrange of features and trim levels available, it is not an easy choice between the 2018 Chevrolet Bolt and 2018 Nissan Leaf.  As mentioned above, perhaps the biggest choice is in the amount of range one needs for their commutes.  There is no question that the Bolt has a distinct advantage in this department in both range and power.  This does come at a cost but may also be absolutely necessary for many.  In fact, the Leaf is considered a “mid-range” electric car which by default makes the Bolt a “long-range” vehicle.  
