The 2018 Crosstrek was on fire in April as well being one of the five hottest selling new cars in America. One of the reasons well-researched consumers are opting for the 2018 Crosstrek is its new Architecture.  Both the 2018 Crosstrek and 2018 Impreza have undergone complete makeovers including the addition of the Subaru Global Platform.  The Crosstrek, along with the Impreza, are the first Subaru models to incorporate the new Subaru Global Platform. This new architecture improves driving characteristics while providing more interior room and making it safer than any of the previous Subaru models. The Subaru Global Platform architecture also provides improved frame rigidity in the area of Noise, Vibration, and Harshness (NHV) reduction, handling characteristics and overall safety. To get this done, Subaru engineers went back to the basics by using higher strength steel.  Adding to this basic but vital improvement, the 2018 Crosstrek has new suspension with the rear stabilizer directly attached to the body to reduced body roll by whopping 50% over the previous model. This all results in vastly improved driving dynamics and driver safety. All of these improvements are also wrapped in a “go-anywhere” vehicle that is more comfortable and fuel efficient in the city or in the country.  


This acclaim for the 2018 Crosstrek is echoed elsewhere in the world.  Known as the “XV” in global markets, it won many awards in Russia’s “Car of the Year “competition. It has also won its first global nomination for the “Best Off-Road” vehicle in the compact SUV category.  These nominations are particularly significant in Russia since they are known for recognizing “The Car of the Year” for the last 18 years. One of the reasons for this is that the voting in Russia is the is the largest in terms of the number of participants over other automotive competitions in the world.  They determine “first place” by using a vast population of Auto Year magazine readers and a large sampling of actual motorists. This year’s voting included over one-million different opinions from all over Russia. Further, the list of nominees included all models that are officially sold on the market.
For Russians, the all-wheel-drive capabilities in the cold northern regions of Russia are as appealing as they are necessary. For the first time, the 2018 Subaru Crosstrek is the most popular with Russia’s people due to their appreciation of its versatility and all-wheel-drive capabilities.  In the past it has been these capacities, combined with Subaru’s inherent reliability, that swayed the Russian voters to make it the Subaru Forester and Outback wagon the brand’s most-recognized vehicles in Russia. Subaru now enjoys nine awards in the last 18 years.  The all-new Crosstrek has been added to the pack and it has won the “Compact SUVs” category for the first time.

Adding to the good news for Subaru, the Crosstrek, Outback and Impreza are the latest Vincentric Best Fleet Value in America winners.  This award measures cost-of-ownership by evaluating the following eight cost factors: fuel, insurance, financing, fees and taxes, maintenance, repairs, depreciation, and opportunity cost.  All fifty states in America, including Washington DC, are evaluated for each vehicle using twenty different ownership and mileage scenarios. Winners are determined by identifying which vehicles have the lowest overall fleet lifecycle cost in the most scenarios for its market segment.  Even with this highly competitive competition, the 2018 Subaru Outback won the Mid-Size SUV/Crossover category as the Vincentric Best Fleet Value in America for the third-straight year. The Crosstrek scored as the best Compact SUV/Crossover and the Impreza compact won as the best Compact Hatchback. Not to be outdone, the 2018 Subaru Impreza won the Vincentric award for the second time in the Compact Hatchback category, with the lowest ownership costs in eighteen of the twenty-eight lifecycle cost scenarios.  It was particularly outstanding in its low depreciation cost. 

The heaps of praise given to Subaru are as good for the company as it is for consumers.  Consumers looking for vehicles with low fuel, ownership, maintenance, and depreciation costs are winners too.  For the business-savvy consumer, one needs to look no further than the 2018 Subaru Outback, Crosstrek and Impreza.
