The very design of vehicles will change significantly too.  Vehicle structural changes will impact design considerations such as the ability to withstand collisions.  The shape and sizes of future vehicles will change a great deal and crash test considerations will differ from that of the past.  There are also many anticipated innovations in materials.  For example, brakes and tires may be very different and it will require them to be re-optimized with different design assumptions, particularly around variability of loads and significantly more controlled environments.  Some design considerations will become less complex.  Driverless vehicles, without the need for driver controls, will require significantly fewer parts (e.g., 1/10th to 1/100th fewer parts) and will be faster and easier to produce. Designs with almost no moving parts are possible.  

The very landscape on one’s hometown may change.  Parking garages, parking lots and parking spaces as we know them will untimely be repurposed for other functions such as mini loading docks.  The very aesthetics of commercial properties and homes will change as parking spaces and driveways are replaced. One can expect a cottage industry to spring up for the landscaping of former parking lots and the conversion of home garages into more living space. Places that were once private vehicle-oriented such as local mechanics, auto parts stores, car dealers, car washes, and gas stations will fade into businesses of other types.  

Some things won’t be particularly missed.  The huge need for driver’s licenses will fade as will the dreaded DMVs in most states.  Businesses providing a government-level ID may emerge as driver’s licenses become less common.
Traffic police will become far less common and police transport will also likely change to some other form. Unmanned police cars may become standard and police officers may join consumers in using commercial fleet transportation.  Traffic signs and stop lights will fade away as well. It is possible that vehicles may not have visible headlights as infrared and radar take the place of lights in the human-visible spectrum.  Traffic jams may be a thing of the past as roads will be much less crowded as self-driving cars need less space and since traffic flow will be better regulated with algorithmic timing including traffic flow optimization. Huge shipping costs and costly road construction may be significantly reduced as roads will wear out less frequently as lighter vehicles are the norm.  Last but not least, those people that are always showing up late will have fewer excuses since driving is out of their hands. 

Other things such as increased socialization and public safety will be welcomed changes.  The relationship between cyclists, pedestrians and transport vehicles will likely change due to cultural and behavioral changes as people travel in groups, walk or ride bicycles more.  Public safety will improve dramatically as DUI/OUI offenses will decline. Perhaps the biggest plus is that there will be many less people killed or injured on our roads and highways.  While other safety issues may spring up (e.g., software hacking) by and large the elimination of the human element in driving is expected to drastically reduce accidents. 
