With Sciton Clear Toe and ClearSense technogies, nail fungus can easily be a thing of the past.  In twenty minutes, all ten toes can be treated for indications including onychomycosis, periungual warts, subungual warts, plantar warts, and foot neuromas.  Just a twenty-minute treatment is all it takes to increase the growth of clear nails.  

ClearSense gets down to the root causes of fungal nails.  Many different conditions can increase the risk of fungi nail infections.  Fungus thrives in wet moist areas can cause fungi nail infections in even the healthiest of people. One only need to be exposed to conditions such as gym showers, swimming pools or other moist areas with a lot of human traffic.  Nail salons without the necessary sanitization precautions for clippers, filers and foot tubs can be another source. Even at home, a family member may bring fungal infections home and infect home showers and tubs. A common cause among athletes is the wearing of tight-fitting and sweaty shoes that cause repetitive trauma to the toenail thereby increasing the susceptibility to fungal nail infections.  People that suffer from athlete’s foot are also more susceptible as the causative fungus may migrate to the toenails. The elderly and those with suppressed immune function are also at more risk.  All of these factors can create an environment for the most common type of fungus, trichophyton rubrum, to flourish.


Once the fungus enters the nail bed and plate it can cause changes in the nail’s appearance including symptoms such as thickening, flaking and discoloration.  Fungal nails may break easily, appear brittle, and separate from the nail bed.  Such visual changes in a nail’s appearance are usually the first signs of fungal nails.  These symptoms may also be accompanied by disfigurement and pain.  These severe cases are not common and can cause problems with physical activities such walking, exercising, and even standing.  It is noteworthy to mention, that observed visual changes in one’s nails requires a proper diagnosis using a test designed to detect the presence of nail fungus.  This is often performed to rule out other possible causes for the nail’s changed appearance.

The use of a laser is good news to patients that are often faced with undesirable and ineffective treatment options such as topical antifungal creams.  Such creams often fail to penetrate the nail adequately fail to eradicate the fungus.  Other treatments such as oral antifungals are often hepatoxic and can result in liver damage.  ClearSense offers a safe, fast, non-toxic, and effective way to eradicate the fungus and facilitate the growth of healthy clear nails in a matter of minutes.  
The treatment is fast and takes only fifteen to twenty minutes.  As an aside, ClearSense can also effectively treat warts and other related dermatologic conditions.  

 This provides instant audio and visual feedback to indicate that the optimal temperature for clinical efficacy has been reached while maintaining patient comfort.  For added safety, the handpiece provides alerts to prevent overheating and blisters. This feature is particularly important for patients with compromised sensation and diabetics.

While the treatment works instantly, there is no immediate visual change due to the time it takes for new nail growth.  Most nail infections improve considerably after one treatment.  More severe infections may require up to four separate treatments.  

