The hard hat customization process doesn’t end with the selection of the shell’s style, motif, color or pattern.  Name decals, additional logos, and accessories can be added to further personalize the design as well as improve its safety.  This can be achieved with a variety of add-on customizations including reflective decals and identification labels. Like the plethora of color and style offerings, the ability to add personal touches is seemingly endless.

Safety comes first and hard hats are no exception.  While addressing such standards as ANSI/ISEA Z89.1-2014 and CSA Z94.1-2005 is fundamental, accessories can augment one’s safety in very important ways.  Protection for the eyes, neck, chin and exposure to weather conditions can be customized to fit individual needs.  There is a wide variety of face shields for added eye protection from harsh glare or flying debris.  For hearing protection; there is a variety of earmuff attachments to keep them handy when needed.   These earmuff attachments are also extendable to keep them out of the way when they are not needed.  The back of the neck can be a vulnerable spot. Different neck shields are offered to keep the neck protected and free from falling debris.  As everyone knows, the weather can be a huge factor and, whether it’s hot or cold, there are many hard hat accessories to make the worker more comfortable.  For hot days, there are Miracool Bandannas, neck shades, hard hat shades, neck cooling wraps and sweat bands that help get workers though a long hot day.  For the frosty side of weather, many hard hat accessories are available such as hard hat liners.  Warm and toasty hard hat liners make those brutally cold days bearable with a wide selection of available styles, colors and textures.  

There are also many safety-enhancing and time-saving hard hat attachments that can make life easier and safer at the same time.  These attachments include safety lights, goggle retainers, pencil clips, and reflective decals.  Safety lights provide illumination in low-light conditions that follow the field of view where the light is needed most. Other safety lights serve as location beacons that let other workers know you are there.  Goggle retainers provide a handy strap that can be moved to place the goggles over the eyes or to rest them on the brim when not needed.  Pencil clips are similarly handy to keep one’s writing instrument accessible when needed as an attachment on the hard hat itself.  Another time-proved accessory are reflective decals that provide a lot of bang for the buck in terms of offering safety in night-time working conditions.  

The Texas America Safety Company is dedicated to providing the ultimate source for MSA hard hats.   While safety is the top consideration, the customization and available accessories can make our great MSA hard hats even greater.   
