The 2018 Subaru Crosstrek and Outback are keeping the sales and brand rolling with high acclaim for Subaru.  With many auto manufactures showing little or even negative growth recently, Subaru is seeing gains.  With all the features, fuel efficiency, off-road ability, low ownership costs and technical innovations available on these their offerings, there is little doubt as to why Subaru is bucking this trend.  The all-new 2018 Subaru Crosstrek and 2018 Outback wagon, along with the WRX/STI performance sedans, are growth-enablers, while sales for the Legacy, BRZ, Forester, and Impreza, were down. So far, this is the best sales Subaru has seen for the Outback and Crosstrek.  The question is, why are consumers flocking to the Outback and Crosstrek?  It’s simple.  They offer good value, low ownerships costs and the renowned reliability of the Subaru name.


Starting with the 2018 Crosstrek with its complete makeover, its sales in May increased 74.4% over the May 2017.   These sales helped Subaru of America (SOA) mark the best month ever for the Subaru brand. While not as stellar, the Outback posted almost a 10% increase with the WRX/STI trailing at a 2.1% increase in May.  The 2018 Subaru Outback remains Subaru’s number one selling vehicle in America having recently sold their two-millionth Outback to make it the most popular crossover in the United States.  It is clear that Subaru hit the nail on the head with these two vehicles. Subaru has managed to find a niche in the market between sub-compact hatchbacks and large SUVs. They were also able to delve into active lifestyles in the urban crowd and millennial demographic for those that value their weekend adventures in the great outdoors. While this is indeed great news for SOA, it is also great news for the consumer.  
Subaru’s all-new 2018 Crosstrek has been the unequivocal shining star in Subaru’s lineup for 2018. This compact SUV/Crossover had its best March sales ever and by increasing to 88.2 percent over the same month in 2017.  This marked the first time that Crosstrek has sold over 13,000 units in a single month. Having the lowest ownership costs contributed to the Crosstrek’s success in a rigorous twenty-eighth point examination with outstanding fuel economy, the lowest operating cost, and the lowest maintenance cost in its class.  It is also noteworthy is that the 2018 Subaru Outback also had its best March ever allowing SOA hit record sales in the first quarter of 2018.

Both the 2018 Crosstrek and Outback wagon come standard with all-wheel-drive combined with the utility of a crosser that isn’t as big as many SUVs.  Both are sporting 8.7-inches of ground clearance combined with all-wheel drive that can handle those excursions into the woods.  This, combined with an available “extreme” X-Mode, leave the possibilities wide open for those inclined to go untamed off-road conditions.  These features along with their fuel efficiency, sporty attitude, and abundance of features leave little doubt as to why the 2018 Subaru Crosstrek and Outback wagon are Subaru’s top sellers in the line-up.
