At Texas America Safety Company, a hard hat isn’t just a hard hat.  Hard hats are companions and an expression of one’s identity as well as a barrier against head injuries.  To fit most every need, the Texas America Safety Company offers a wide variety of MSA hard hat models, styles, colors, motifs, logos, patterns, and accessories to make workers safe while comfortably standing out in the crowd. 

When one thinks of models, style and suspension, cars and trucks usually come to mind.  In no small way, these attributes apply to hard hats too. 

 In terms of style, there are two main choices: the age-old full brim and the more contemporary cap-style.  Variations in the styles include vents, ridges and built-in additions to accommodate accessories. There is even an MSA Environmentally Green hard hat option available for the environmentally conscience worker. Suspension comes into play to get the model and style of the hard hat of choice comfortably affixed to one’s head.  To get this done, Fas-Trac, Staz-On, and standard ratcheting suspensions are offered to provide that perfect tweaking ability to fit any worker’s head.  These suspension options are interchangeable and can transferred from hat to hat. 

Whether it’s company colors, trade colors or simply personal choice, Texas America Safety Company stocks virtually every color under the sun.  Of course, there is the standard white and safety yellow colors but also a wide assortment including colors that are very hard to find.  To name a few there are black, blue, gray, orange, high viz orange, silver and more available colors.  There are colors more associated with metals such as gun metal and gold.  For the fashion-conscience female there is even pink and an assortment of pastel colors.   

If the wide selection of colors isn’t enough, there is a wide range of motifs including those for NFL fans, American patriots, bikers, hunters and more. For NFL fans there is a hard hat for every team including the Dallas Cowboys, Oakland Raiders, Denver Broncos, Pittsburg Steelers, Green Bay Packers and more.  They include the team logo on each side and are tastefully arranged in team colors including colorful stripes.  For the patriotic worker there is an assortment of flag patterns all in majestic red, white and blue.  Bikers can choose from a variety of skulls, Maltese Crosses and flame patterns.  For the hunters in the work force there are far too many camo patterns to mention.  It suffices to say that any hunter would be satisfied with the selection.  

As if the large selection of colors and motifs aren’t enough, there is a wide variety of “Hydro Dipped” patterns as well.  Hydro Dipped, also known as “Water Transfer Printing,” is a design that covers the entire shell of the hat.  Each one is a custom creation and one-of-a-kind.  The designs are permanent and come with a glossy clear coat to keep them looking new forever.  

Visiting the America Safety Company’s website is highly recommended to get a full appreciation of all the offerings.  
