	The gradual increase of the involvement of women in the political and social spheres has provided many opportunities for the lives of women especially in the academic world. Many periodicals and journals such as Fem written by Alaída Foppa, opened writing spaces for many other feminists including Elena Urrutia, Margo Glantz, and Marta Lamas. Articles such as this exposed the voices of women by including testimonies and academic discourse that were not locked by the Eurocentric academic world. Contemporarily, there are many laws that serve to protect women against sexual violence reducing the rate of feminicide and although abortion has not been completely legalized contraceptives are widely distributed. Mexico is now a trademark for the emergence of other feminist movements especially the indigenous such as Zapatista movement.        
	Issues still remain in the country despite the radical improvement of women. There is internal displacement for people and increase migration due to the leniency of the government control of the military. Since the common enemy of the country are drugs, an illegal multi-billion dollar industry, that attack of drug cartels and drug distributors tend to harm individuals during such pursuits still allowing feminicide to exist but at a lower rate Mexico is still coping with the aftermath of the neoliberal policies inflicted by fraudulent presidents so workers and unions are having difficulties remaining competitive in their global economy.. 
	Although political instability still remains the women in Mexico have still manage to insert themselves in the political spectrum increasing their involvement in the community. The indigenous feminists have served a great contribution globally for other feminist by their voice and agenda and the plurality of Mexican feminism and helped raised more concerns such as abortion and contraceptives. Through the lens of an American I at first saw hardly anything positive about the country until I learned about its feminist and their physical involvement in the government. Although the country may have its major disputes it still is becoming objectively better and my subjective views of it are as well. 
