There are many elements within the novel that have been changed and have been kept which helped localize the aspect of racial disparity. The first person perspective of Easy has been translated to third person limited within this scene. The directors incorporates the camera use of eye line matches by meticulously shooting from the perspective of the window Easy is looking at, and transitioning to a medium shot of Easy’s face. The camera maintains the focus of Easy and actions while limited the actions of other characters. The setting also remains the same which takes place in the notoriously wealthy Los Angeles area, Malibu. The motivation to kidnap Daphne has been contaminated where the film eliminates the suitcase of money and focuses more on the threat to reveal her identity as a black woman. There was a reduction of Joppy’s character regarding his actions in torturing Daphne whom was instead used as source of information for Daphne’s whereabouts.  His moments with the female character were confabulated into Albright’s two assistants instead. Daphne being naked on the couch was eliminated in film. Instead, she is sitting on an armchair wearing her signature blue dress that she wore in previous scenes.  The film also reduces Mouse’s villainous nature by eliminating his malicious attacks with Joppy and reducing his desire for money. He chokes Joppy in the car off screen in order to save time and help Easy, and the suitcase of money is non-existent. Mouse’s expertise with guns remain the same. They eliminated Mouse’s mentioning of Daphne’s true name, Ruby, and his familiarity with her and her brother in the film. This scene also expands on the death of Albright. In the novel, the narrative does not provide the death of Albright but is mentioned later in the chapter by Easy. The film intinuates Albright’s drive to escape by showing him crawl to his death near his car instead. 
The film uses the style of film noir to enhance the detective element of Easy and supply the concept of duplicity to the main character and his public sphere. The dark, nighttime setting expresses this style as well with the scene’s use of low contrast and lighting which supplied many shadows to the characters.  Since this scene focuses more on action, the director projects the third person limited on Easy unlike in other scenes where Easy narrates, establishing first person perspective instead. The location of this gun fight it most crucial to the theming of race and prejudice. The film keeps the location of Malibu. The overall setting of the film narrative takes place in Los Angeles, a common area in early film noir that is also known as “the white spot of America” for the black community in African American neo-noir. This suggest that the environment will be the danger for the black protagonist because of the harsh racial mistreatment towards the African-American community, exploiting his “consciousness of racial oppression” that white detectives in past narratives “simply lack[ed]” This enables the audience to normalize the lifestyle and environment of Easy, a black male, who has to cope with this adversity. The threat of the setting becomes more severe in Malibu since the area is predominantly white. The consciousness of race in that area has “barely registered in the American imagination.  Malibu is filmed in the disturbing environment of the woods at night, which is a stark contrast to the common perception of the community that is normally portrayed as a utopian area that many people aspire to live in. The film and novel challenges those perceptions by establishing this area as a dangerous environment, especially for black people. This helps shift the audience’s perspective so they can begin to define what danger is for Easy rather than the typical danger a white detective may face. 
