	Amongst the many issues migrants and indigenous people had to face because of political instability, gender issues remained prominent in the political and social sphere. In the 1970’s political parties and leftist groups partially recognized women feminism as a “petite bourgeois” articulating that they had little impact in the Mexican political spectrum and were not a serious issue considering the many others the country had to face. Feminist groups mainly consisted of radical middle class educated women who “reproduced authoritarianism and concentration of power” that was criticize by the Left, the dominant political perspective. This divided the other women rights groups including indigenous feminist who are most affected indirectly by the government.  Gortari raised more issues against women during expanding civil war of drug cartels. Feminicide was used as a military strategy to “destabilize, terrorize, and perpetuate social control” which occurred mainly in poorer communities. Opposition by women caused them to be persecuted by the government.  Indigenous women had to suffered “triple” oppression by being poor, a minority and female and by the government marginalizing the left to endure poverty the “respect for culture” policy was used to legally institutionize traditional practices deny basic rights to women 
	Despite the political turmoil women had to face they had managed to the increase their voice within government relishing their direct role in the community. In the 1970’s, the world boom of feminism emerged including sectors of radical feminism, and avant-garde feminism. This emergence of feminism transformed current policies at the federal and state level from both urban and rural areas of unionized women with civil associations and NGO’s. By the 1980’s The Nation Women’s Movement was established which demanded the state to assist females of sexual violence resulting in organizations such as the Center for Guidance and Support for Rape Victims As Feminist groups began to negotiate with the state, and activism lead conferences for the “valorization of domestic labor” were created that opened more state organizations such as “Taking Back Spaces” and ‘Access to Justice for Women”. By 1999, Instituto de la Mujer was created, and by 2001 The First National Consultation on Women’s Right was included in the government. In 1995 Fernandez desired feminists to take women’s electoral behavior seriously which in correlation increased women mayors who helped with “gender sensitive issues and program” albeit it disadvantaged minorities.  For indigenous women to be encompassed into Mexican politics, they had to take leadership in the military which advocated for their demands in the Women’s Revolutionary Law. The Zapatista National Women Law of 1995 redefined traditional and modernity which broaden the notion of autonomy. This includes concepts such as complementarity and the role the Earth plays in the government.   
	For the past 40 years women have worked collectively to construct as voice that expanded the traditional forms of “citizenship” and the shift to the left may have increase their chances. Before women became more involved politically wise, they followed the American pursuit by burning brassieres, protesting against Mother’s Day, and demanded the obsoletion of Miss Universe. In the 1970’s feminism enabled diverse sectors of women to “mobilize in dialogue” raising political participation, especially in the labor market which increased the distribution of wealth between gender. In fact, the region of Oaxaca was a target for expanding this concept. Left wing groups began to partake during this time by originally meeting in public spaces which later transitioned to being constituted. This established the Women in Solidarity Action and more feminist workshops that launched for more discussion such as sexuality and abortion. As feminism began to increase and become more pluralized, the legality of abortion became a more prominent issue in many areas of the country. The state began to legalize contraceptives but not abortion which raised more debate between the government’s control over women. This enabled the entrance of the Communist Party to “increase the drive” for abortion which introduced the Motherhood Bill that gained more electoral presence which was unsuccessful. The radical shift of democracy caused a brief pluralistic period for feminism between 1985 and 1994 which began the draft for newer agendas.  Grassroots women’s mobilization began to multiply due to the “stark” economy increase of women participation. The creation of NGO’s was use to articulate concrete claims on the absence of state services and were served as a platform for rejected women of different political parties. By 1991 the National Women’s Convention in Favor of Democracy emerged to push women candidates. This enable the federal code to institute that 20% of political positions had to be women which served as a gradual change for female involvement in the government. 
