During the economic crisis, Neshter Kirchner became president in 2003 and immediately takes away amnesty from the military.  He successfully restructured the economy by paying the debt within 3 years.  In 2007 his wife, Crisitina Kirchner became president and legalized same-sex marriage but receive a controversial reputation for not being a feminist, a more contemporary political backlash for feminists in the country. 
Within the transition to the left the Processo employed immense terror to collect bonds which forced individuals to limit their contact to only “buying from and selling to others”.  Numerous human rights groups, particularly the Plaza de Mayo lead by Hebe de Bonafini brought a great shift of power that served as a symbol against terrorism.  Organizations such as this served as resistance which helped support the worker’s movement, student activists, and the struggle of a great majority of people by the early 1980’s.  During the economic downfall in the early 2000’s workers took over at least 160 factories where “members of the workers elect[ed] their own council, employees bec[a]me shareholders, and everyone ma[d]e the same wages” which showed resistance against Carlos Menem who was blamed for the economic turmoil of the country. 
Amongst the many broad issues Argentina faces, very prominent ones dealt with gender equality and their position in the government and society.  The Consejo Nacional de Mujeres or CNM created in 1991, a prominent women’s rights organization, at first prioritized for programs that increased women’s political participation, decrease domestic violence and sexual harassment, and gain reproductive rights.  During Menem’s presidency, he, a devout Catholic, allied with the Catholic Church in which they both opposed abortion causing it to be prohibited in the new constitution in order to protect the traditional nuclear family.  During the economic crisis in the early 2000’s, poverty and inequality increased 57.2% along with reforms that created new labor for citizens that fell into a “pro-market macroeconomic framework which constrained” the integration of women in the labor market. 
Although issues ensued during the permeation of leftist policies in Argentina, the role of feminism and various gender perspectives became large aspects within the government to an extent. The “legislative arena is important for women in Argentina”.  The Convention to Eliminate all Forms of Discrimination Against Women or CEDAW served as an “outgrowth” for the political involvement of women by establishing a quota where 30% of women had to be in Congress which later helped create CNM.  CNM became the “secretariat of the state” by implementing the quota law in the adoption of neoliberalism.  As Menem persisted in opposing abortion, the female legislative submitted a bill on family planning where a majority of provinces in the country received reproductive rights. Nestcher Kirchner gave CNM lead by María Lucila Colombo the Consejo Nacional de Coordinación de Políticas. This however promoted antiabortion so it could “strengthen family and traditional roles”.  During the economic crisis the return to normalcy such as having a financially stable family became an appealing campaign in which Kirchner took advantage of.  Although CNM established programs to aid impoverished women during the economic crisis, it was at the expense of gender equality and they had to deprioritize their original intentions.  Cristina Kirchner became Head of the State in 2009 but her position and her ideas went against the majority of Argentinian feminist ideals due to her religious orientation as a Catholic. 
