	The film greatly expands on the death of Albright by filming his death scene. This change was added to enhance the relationship between Easy and Mouse as skilled detectives and heroes.  It was also added to increase the audience’s satisfaction of the fallen antagonist. This death visually shows the obstacles the protagonists were able to overcome. Despite the danger of their environment and the risk they took to kill a white male, this conclusion emphasizes the strength behind two black males. The protagonists were able to be “assertive… against injustice as the narrative evolves”. Easy and Mouse transpose the typical environment of racism by being able to defeat a white male in a higher position, ultimately overcoming their biggest obstacle. 
	The film dutifully tackles the issues Walter Mosley intended to display in his novel by allowing the film to be a close to intermediate adaption to it. The main objective to both mediums is to seek Daphne. The novel justifies this goal by having the characters seek her for her body or her knowledge of money. The film’s motivation is to unveil her identity as a consequence for her knowledge, establishing the concept of race as the film’s primary theme. To project this theme, the film skillfully uses the environment of Los Angles and Malibu to change how the audience normally perceives the progressive area by incorporating the many adversities black people face on a normal basis. Thus, the director normalizes racism to exploit the hardships the many characters have to endure in order to achieve their goals. Easy perpetually risks his life whenever he enters an area that is not predominantly black. It becomes ironic when Easy’s risk factors increases the more wealthy an area he is in, evident by the life threatening scene which takes place in Malibu. A crucial element of film noir is its setting which is usually illustrated as a dark, isolated community that are filled with many threats. The conception of this genre stems from societies’ anxieties of war and economic turmoil.  This film addresses this concept exactly but expresses these anxieties specific to black people, which is the inescapable racist sphere they have to continuously endure.
	The film does a fantastic job focusing on the elements of race and racism from the transformative novel of Mosley and allows the audience to implore on these issues. Despite a few eliminations and reductions from the novel, the cinematic presentation is still able to effectively leave a timeless message that needs be taken into account in present day. Mosley’s legacy of changing the perception of black characters will serve as a landmark to modern media and will hopefully influence other media creators to do the same as well. 
