Between the grand terrain of the Aconcagua Mountains to the lively and eccentric city of Ushuia embedded in the southern border lies a paradox developed by the evolution of Argentinian politics that has impacted the lives of women and the role of gender.  During the democratization of Argentina, the shift to the left may have trapped many women regarding gender equality rather than improve their positions entirely such as their position in the economy, their position in politics, and most crucially their position on reproductive rights.  As women became more involved in the government during the aftermath of the military dictatorship in the 1980’s, a plethora of changes did occur that served to benefit them, yet there were a few controversial setbacks placed by groups and individuals that serve as a backlash against them. The historical movements that have caused a radical shift to left have served it advantages to women, yet it may be the shift that has damaged them as well. 
	Between the late 1970’s the “Dirty War” led by the Proceso de Reorganización occurred which caused the deaths and disappearances of over 30,000 civilians in protest against them.  Due to the debt crisis and the coup which overthrew the well liked Montonerros, the almost fascist military regime took control of the country causing civilians in Argentina to endure the endless amounts of armed guerilla organizations and military forces.  It became a pinnacle point that produced “the democratic shift” when organizations such as the Plaza de Mayo took initiative and established symbolic meetings for their children who disappeared known as “eschaches” and started the national process of reconciliation by building monuments near the detention sites in Buenos Aires.  They began to confront those who participated in the war and gathered support from the people to change the political system which later transitioned to the politics of neoliberalism, a central politic utilized in many Latin American countries during the 1980’s and 1990’s. 
	During their political transition to neoliberalism, certain policies did entail the continuation of dictator policies due the military regime forcing the social body to adapt to the neo-liberalist policies.  Shorter elections and terms later took place with Raul Alfonso being the first to take the majority due to convicting dictators who participated in the military forces. Although his election was a result of democratic shift, the economy went through a hyperinflation after their “humiliating defeat” of the Falkland Wars in which he did not insist in making a radical reform causing him to resign.  In 1989, Carlos Menem succeeded him by carrying a free market reform causing a larger shift to the left. He developed neoliberalist policies that initially appealed to the lower and middle class, by reducing subsidies for the poor, controlling hyperinflation, and privatizing stated owned companies which decreased government regulation of businesses.  By 1998, the economy went through a downfall as the country’s capital began to leave causing a larger detriment to their debt. Citizens, initially women, began to reopen their own businesses without government consent causing the labor class and Menem to be at a political standstill.  In 2002, Eduardo Dulhalde receives presidency and tries to “stabilize the economy by devaluing the Peso and stopping banking and foreign exchange” albeit unsuccessful. 
