Bullying is a serious epidemic within the social structure of the youth and there are many justifications for the reason it may occur. Bad parenting, low self-esteem, and many other psychological processes that ensues a positive deficit within the mindset of children may be examples, but racism is a primary example on why African American students are treated poorly in the school system. These attitudes and use of discrimination stem from this act that is perceived to stop as the person matures yet during the Ferguson case in 2014 it seems like the bully, officer, still won. Like the school institutions, the American political institution can prevent such mistreatment using their system, and like the parents, interest groups and parties may get involved with various tactics to raise the issue. 
	To address the demonstrators that are angered by the controversial judicial indictment of Darren Wilson the American institution must allow them to follow their rights from the Constitution, specifically the first Amendment from the Bill of Rights. It states that citizen have the right for “free speech” and “peaceful assemble” for the “government to redress” federal issues. If they enforce the clear and present danger test to prevent “criminalized expression” than the demonstrators will understand how they should protest rather than illegally damaging property and allegedly blocking people from their job.  The will then demonstrators will receive more attention for raising their issue, than receiving negative attention from disrupting peace unlike the demonstrators of the Rodney King Riots who lead more damage than justifying their cause. The judicial system should apply the Ferguson more the Constitutional law where the court “questions [issues] concerning…civil rights and civil liberties”. If the institution regards the case in such a way demonstrators and even society will know and understand that the murder was from civil mistreatment rather than it being excused as self-defense decreasing protests that persist that the trial was a result from racism. The administration should also collect public opinions using probability sampling to “ensure that every person has an equal chance of being selected. They then could broadcast the poll through television and even the social media to exploit the opinions of American citizens so protestors would not feel inquired to perform certain stunts in their community that could shed them in a negative lens. 
	Interest groups can play a very influential role in encouraging the political institution to promote their policies and ideas. The noneconomic civil rights interest group would play a primary role in subjecting their issues in regards to the murder of Mike Brown. Specifically the NAACP, this group’s “principal mission is to… eliminate racial hatred and racial discrimination. They could encourage members and individuals who agree with their statements and directly lobby public officials particularly within the judicial branch to reconsider the case. Interest groups in relation to the Ferguson can also use the methods of education to “persuade the public to support [their] position. With high quality research of the case of the dedication to endorse it the case may reopen and the perceived police crime may not go unpunished. The group will also establish credibility and will be considered more as an asset regarding their perspective on police brutality. 
