“Devil in a Blue Dress” written by Walter Mosley challenges the common tropes of the hard-boiled detective genre by centralizing on an impoverished community: the African-American community. The novel tarnishes the reputation of the suburban lifestyle that is typically projected more positively by incorporating the plethora of hardships black people face in their environment. The film, directed by Carl Franklin, consolidates these issues as its primary theme. “Devil in a Blue Dress” normalizes the role of racism by integrating the adversities of racism as the primary antagonist to the main character Easy Rawlins. 
	A scene that is parallelized between the novel and the film consist of the protagonist attempting to save the newly racialized femme fatale Daphne from being brutally investigated. The film focuses on elements pertaining to prejudice, where in the novel, is much more subdued establishing money as the characters’ primary motivation. The subtext behind these similar moments differ regarding the reasoning behind the characters. 
In the novel, Easy and Mouse arrive to Albright’s cabin on Route 9 in Malibu at night in attempt to find Daphne after he and Joppy kidnapped her in order to find the suitcase of money. As they arrive there, Easy looks through the cabin window to find Daphne naked on a couch being tortured and molested by Joppy and Albright. Easy draws his pistol, but Albright reacts before him and shoots at the window Easy is looking at. Mouse interferes and ties down Joppy while interrogating Daphne for the stolen money. He also reveals that her name is Ruby in front of Easy and explains how he has met her and her brother. Mouse eventually shoots Joppy in the groin, and then in the head, ultimately killing him. He also manages to shoot Albright, who bleeds to death while driving away from the gun battle. 
The film version of this moment is a relatively close to intermediate adaptation that focuses more on the racial element and the camaraderie between Easy and Mouse. Albright and his two multicultural lackey’s capture Daphne in Easy’s small house after she personally revealed her identity as a black woman. Easy brings Mouse to save Daphne with a captured Joppy in order to uncover some information pertaining to Daphne’s whereabouts. Once the protagonists arrive to Albright’s cabin in Malibu at night, Easy asks Mouse to watch over Joppy in the car. He later begins the gun battle and manages to shoot one of his assistants. Mouse interferes and kills the other assistant and shoots Albright. Before this battle begins, Daphne is not naked and is still wearing her blue dress. Albright attempts to crawl to his car near the cabin and dies from blood loss. Easy later finds Joppy dead next to his car when escorting Daphne outside the cabin. Mouse reveals that he shot Joppy because he had no time tie him up in order for him to help Easy. 
