Indigenous groups such as the Zapatistas, Tojobols, Chols, Tzoltzils, and the Tzeltals are examples of people who have been oppressed for centuries by the Spanish conquest and their creation of a more mestizo like community delineating and de-prioritizing issues that have emerged within the groups concerning the aspects of the rights of indigenous people, particularly women.  The more popular sectors of feminism in Latin America including socialist feminists, and liberal feminists are unable to understand the correlation of their cultural impacts and the role of women and men resulting in them decreasing their relevancy in the female agenda.  Due to these factors women in indigenous communities have begun to increase their participation in the government more internationally resulting in great contributions to the feminist sectors and the clashing of ideas with others as well. 
Since the beginning of post-colonialism in Latin America women and feminists in indigenous communities have continued to have opposing feelings with larger and popular feminists groups. Liberalist and socialist feminists did not inquire and were racist against their social and political system so non-mestiza women began to form their own committee thus beginning the Coordinating Committee of Indigenous Women to “raise their voices” and demand cultural and political rights to “construct a justified society”.  The first indigenous rebellion began in the 1974 with the creation of the Indigenous Congress, but 1990’s in Mexico was a critical period for the movement to denounce the economic and radical oppression of indigenous communities and to make them a “national project” as well.  In fact in 1994 the Zapatista National Liberation Movement served as a catalyst to advocate the movement increasing more discussions at the National Meeting of Indigenous Women which became so nation-wide, it reached other countries including America and Canada.  They began to receive more media footage in television programs, newspapers, and periodicals that opened they eyes in world albeit negatively.  This increase of participation has helped change the perspective of indigenous women and their reasoning to raise their voices in the region. 
	Indigenous communities have contributed many ideas that have changed the perspective of many feminists of various sectors justifying the reasoning they had to increase their participation in the community.  The Zapatismos played an important role in the creation of the “national spaces” in making the indigenous demand more visible.  This included the general demand for autonomy regarding land, and cultural and political demand for compatibility. Until then many liberal feminist began to make political negotiations with the Mexican government to validate their agenda rather than combining it with others ideas suitable for all people within the region.  The idea of compatibility between men and women also concerned dominant feminist groups since they believed patriarchy was not the main struggle.  With indigenous feminists informing society in the National Meeting of Individual Women, women leaders have tried to create a specific agenda for their women.  This brought the philosophy that “beings are not separate from each other” and that “[they] were all subjects” declaring a different connotation of equality where the “supreme is the community” which raise more detest from other feminists.   Not only do men and women divide the work in their perceived idea, but their government is more centered on the couple and group establishing the leader only as the “spokesperson”.  This community believes the heart is central for thinking and with that their environment has changed many notions about what the feminist agenda should be. 
