Gender is the personally, or socially constructed sex an individual is labeled as. An example for it being personal would be a male who may consider themself a man because he personally believes and chooses that he is but includes other qualities suitable for him. For it to be socially constructed, society labels him as a man and he perform acts that are considered masculine in his community even if he does not enjoy them.
A feminist can be a male or female that supports equality of all people include sex, race, sexuality, class, etc.  They are not in support of stereotypes, prejudice, and other degrading actions.  An example of this would be an African American female feminist who does support the hyper-sexualization of black males in magazines because it objectifies them rather than them promoting the particular product. 
Gender roles are the specific roles classified for males or females to perform in the public and private sphere that are socially constructed with in their community.  For example, in many countries it is usually the females that are subjected in performing house chores whereas males go to out to work to make money for the family. This concept tends to unconsciously force many individuals to act on activities they technically do not have to do.
Social construction is what contemporary society perceives on whether certain actions or attitude are normal or deviant.  This concept is constantly changing due to political, economic, or cultural factors.  An example of this would be that everyone should eat McDonald’s.  Since it is one of the most profitable franchises in American the citizens should enjoy and if they do not people may classify them as weird or unusual even though they do not have to like it. 
A social institution is an organization that has the power to socially construct and label what they deem it normal or not.  These organizations can outcast many individuals who are not associated with the organization.  An example of this would be sections of the American government that demonize Muslims after the 9/11 attack even though Muslims were not associated with it. 
A deviant can be a person or group that does not follow what is considered normal and can be disapproved by another who has the power to label their actions as so.  An example of this would be a boy who enjoys ballet and receives much disapproval from his peers who laugh at him and claim that the dance is only meant for women. They disapprove of his choice and use their power to label it as not normal.
Popular culture is a contemporary trend that exists by the media to either entertain individuals or normalize thing based on the social construction of the community.  An example of this would be that the use of IPad’s promoted through commercials.   A new item has been presented through television and after a few months people use the item on a normal base even though it was non-existent before. 
Intersectionality is the interception of social aspects an individual that they may be born with or chosen that may or may not give them more privileges than others.  A white male protestant that is wealthy in the socially constructed society of American has more privileges than an African American Muslim woman that is poor.  The intersection of the male is deemed better according the standards of society even if he did not choose to be in some of the categories. 
