The aftermath of the tumultuous regime of the neoliberal government and the voices of female advocates that has permeated through the politics of Latin America for decades may have resulted in the permanent radicalization of reforms in regards to women. In counties such as Argentina, and Ecuador, the shift to the left has overall caused a positive impact toward the livelihood of women and has caused a breakthrough for countries of mixed political views such as Nicaragua which has created a gateway for ideas that were originally scrutinized.  In general, the Left has assisted women demands of reform and may lead to advancement of the lives of women and the countries Argentina, Ecuador, and Nicaragua are justifications on why the left is very crucial for the development. 
	Out of the three chosen countries the women in Argentina appeared to benefit the most in regards to their movement after the overthrow of the military dictatorship.  The Mothers of Plaza began the shift during the development of the new regime, neoliberalism.  Their positions enabled them to fight against humanity by performing non-violent demonstrations in order to redeem the identities of their lost children during the hostage crisis in the 1980’s.  Although they were unable to meet their intentionally goals, the shift to the left allowed them to continue demonstrations allowing other sectors to do so as well.  The shift to the left helped gain a female perspective in the assembly which increased the focus of women in the agenda.  This allowed social reforms such as the Male and Female Headed Households and Plan Familias which helped reinstate unemployed women, and women social movements such as CNM utilized the World Bank Loan which financially helped families, albeit “traditional ones”, and gave child allowances.  Overall the shift to the left prioritized in financially assisting women which was a concerning issue in the country regarding the mass poverty rate. 
	Despite many controversial reforms and statements claimed during and after the neoliberal government, democratization still served as an advantage to the women of Ecuador. During the election of Rafael Correa in 2006 he stated at the Women’s Alliance National Conference that the Citizen’s Revolution had a “woman’s face”.  This was in regards to making new reform that although helped women overall, went against same-sex marriage, and abortion due to his ties to the Catholic Church.  The post-neoliberal nation was more family oriented in regards to the creation of the new constitution.  This document supported all types of families including “transnational migrant families, same-sex households, and trans-communal networks”.  Correa also developed the slogan bien vivir which has “implications” of feminist advantages such as providing an opening for the “reimaging” policies concerning labor for women.  This also included many spectrums of feminism such as indigenous feminism and lesbian feminism.  Members of the civil society participated in the new assembly including two feminist groups: Coordinadora Política de la Mujer Ecuatorianas and Foro Permanente de la Mujer Ecuatoriana.  The end of the neoliberal government has led to an increase of female involvement in the government which has changed priorities of the constitutions resulting in reforms geared toward women and has supported the “distinct” forms of family.  
