	Particular parties such as the Black Panther Party use methods that may not be deemed as peaceful within the American political system. Wayne Pharr, a member of this party claimed that he “needed” more guns as he became more associated with the party. The self-defense tactic became more crucial to these members since the LAPD criminalized the party and encourage police brutality. Black Panthers felt that in order for the them to protect themselves from unwarranted harm they had to “arm [them]selves” than show the ineffective non-resistance. With the emergence of the white gangs and racist police officers who considered it honorable to hate and harm black people it was inevitable for people such as Wayne Pharr to be killed unless they knew how to successfully fight back. If fighting back was the only way to save black people from harm to themselves and their family against police brutality in the 1960’s and 1970’s than it probably was the best solution for them at the time. 
	Particular protests and the other methods of civil disobedience are effective methods in addressing racial inequality. The sit-down strikes, bus boycotts, insistent lobbying and other tactics  did help persist the goals of the civil rights movements. However, violent methods that physically harmed individuals should be considered more, with very justiciable reasons. The Black Panthers were defending themselves rather than staying on the offense and they also had another agenda to attend to such as the Breakfast Programs and helping black college students. What Ferguson protestors are doing now are reasonable, harmless, and an effective way for society to hear their voices. 
	The bully can be stop and institutions and those who follow it can take action to prevent mistreatment and oppression. Although there are many methods that could address the issue there are methods to choose from. The American institution can appeal to the demonstrators and interest groups can raise awareness if they use effective procedures.  The approach Wayne Pharr and the Black Panther Party took to appease police brutality was suitable for them even if it did receive some backlash from certain institution. There were successful approaches to gain voting rights, stop segregation of schools, and end discrimination in the workplace so what is the most successful approach for the Ferguson case?
