	Popular culture did not serve as a great impact toward my life.  With how I was raised, and who I associated with, the contemporary tradition did not affect my life like it had done to others.  With much of the media having limited roles for women I rarely liked what they always portrayed in.  In reality television women would physically harm another in very vindictive ways and were paid for doing that.  My gender will not associate itself with something as menial as fighting on television to get a man who does not even care for me, or gossip about a woman I claimed I was friends with.  That is not me, but such concepts can be applied to the gender of another woman.  In movies, a woman might play a housewife, a seductress, a royal, or someone that “tend to leave the pleasure in the man’s domain”. In modern music videos rappers are fully dressed with a coat and hat, yet the myriads of girls that surround them are greased up and wear bathing suits.  Since I consider my personality a factor to my gender, I choose to not subject my body-being on television. Although this is quite common today for many people to associate themselves to this I choose not to follow it because I personally, will not like it.  There are other forms of media that do influence my gender such as the characters of Harry Potter movies, especially Hermoine. She loves her occupation and although she had her crushes throughout the series, it did not stop her from pursuing her own goals.  There are few roles for women such as this but they are the most influential for my constructed gender.  I prefer to reach a goal first and then allow other aspects to enter my life and because of roles such as this it makes it acceptable for a woman such as myself to perform it. 
	The other factors of my gender as a woman are the intersectionalities of my race, class, religion, and political affiliation.  As an African American, prejudice and discrimination are active obstacles in my life.  Since I am born this way I have no control of how I would be treated, but I do take pride in what I am.  With what I am facing, I have personally become a Christian so I can support myself faithfully through the complications I endure, and have been a committed liberalist to break away from tradition that serve as a deficit to the black community and “transform knowledge to advocate policies and eliminate inequality”.  My position regarding my class is not the wealthiest but it serves to help me further my education so I can understand and take action.  I consider these intersectionalities as great qualities for my gender as an individual woman.  Although many of them may have its issues it has greatly humbled and changed my attitude and personality that makes it distinct from other individuals. 
	I believe no one’s construction of their gender in the same, but many can be similar if they choose to shadow the contemporary social construction of their community.  I do not choose to do this because I already have many great positive factors that establish who I am as a woman and individual.  Why follow something if you naturally cannot belong to it?  As an individual I am very proud of my gender as a woman with great qualities. If society does not agree with the different qualities I have than I see no reason why I need to devoutly follow it like the many individuals that struggle to do so. 	
