Along with women being involved in politics their participation served as a great impact for the continuation of democracy after the end of the military regime which also resulted in various disputes within the government and women organizations.  The Plazo de Mayo was the “start of women in the left during the development of a new regime”.  They met every Thursdays and performed non-violent protests that drew international attention from other Latin American countries that such as Bolivia, Chile, Paraguay, and Uruguay.  Although with their immense protest and support, their motives were still unresolved when they were unable to find the records of their lost children; however, they began the shift to left due to their protests and concern for a new system and by being women they exploited the credible role women can play in the government which was reached to many other countries.  The initial goals for CNM during the democratization process were to advance the rights for women and create gender equality which initially served as a leftist policy.  They “delivered social assistance” financially wise, but “abandoned reproductive rights”. CNM began to decline due to the pluralism of feminist ideas and the shift of motivation during the economic crisis. There was also a “split” between the Menem administration and women’s groups.  Along with this in 1999 a political crisis also ensued which resulted in a new government with a “moderate left center” which opposed the wide gap between the rich and the poor even though the economic downfall occurred later in the early 2000’s.  CNM then helped to create social programs such as the Male and Female Households and Plan Families that helped impoverished families and “reinstate[d] unemployed women”.  They began to focus on families using the World Bank Loan that gave child allowances to women according the amount of children mothers had. These social reforms did follow more leftist policies yet due to promotion of the traditional families that are applied to their policies the concept of gender equality were undermined. This became the point where CNM had lost it original intent for women’s right.  As Cristina Kirchner became the new female face for Argentina, her policies delved less in the ideas of Latin American feminism by giving little priorities to advance the role for women. She became less active with abortion laws in the federal partly due her religious ties to Catholicism. This resulted in abortion used solely for criminal law which was renounced in the administrative process by the federal ministry.  Kirchner also announced an “extension of child allowance for pregnant women”, but no reproductive health services.  Despites the criticisms of Kirchner and the female legislatures non-attention to certain aspects of gender equality, their positions are notarized “as a strategy” for “networking” amongst women.
The controversies that have resulted regarding gender equality after the military dictatorship are very noticeable yet there are certain policies that did promote it.  In 2006 a contraceptive surgery law is being considered as well as sexual education in high schools, and the ratification of the CEDAW law which when incorporated, will allow the avocation of women in Argentina in the constitution.  This made them the first Latin American country to establish a constitution such as this.  Although Cristina Kirchner went against feminist motives she did help established many reforms to benefit woman and families. 
