As much as I love money, I do love setting goals and obstacles for myself to fulfill my overall achievements of becoming a psychologist. I am achiever and I cannot always rely on this amount of cash to fulfill my desires. Since the stipulations suggest that I must graduate from the college, this would meet my criteria of goal setting and developing new obstacles for myself in the future. While in college I will make small yet noticeable changes regarding my academic and social experiences at the university. 
	I do love the concept of psychology and will continue to pursue that major, but I will add a minor as well which would be Music: Wind. According to the CSUN catalogue this class allows students to “confirm the power and potential of music in human development”. I have always loved music and playing the flute but considered it more as a hobby rather than a passion. With this class I will be able to pursue my hobby without any time constraints of having to be in required classes and enjoy myself. I would also take CTVA 100 Introduction to Mass Communication in which students evaluate and analyzed the mass media and CTA 210 Television-Film Aesthetic in which the class will “exhibit and evaluate” films and television programs. I love films and appreciate excellent ones that break the social standards and escape from reality. These classes will definitely help me learn more about how films are created and why they are perceived as either good or bad. 
	I will incorporate much of my time in extra-curricular activities so that I may be involve and help my community. Even though my life is financially stable there is no guarantee that my involvement socially will be. I would continue to be a part of the tennis club and possibly become president of the organization. In the article Ditch Your Boyfriend Dump Your Laptop the author advised that I should “not be stuck in one environment”. I would accommodate this advice by traveling abroad to multiple countries for educational purposes, and for personal experiences. I would travel to France, Britain, Italy, and Japan. For clubs, I would like to establish a Gardening Club. The campus is already beautiful but I feel that if there was more foliage that surrounded the buildings and the landmarks it would be more stunning and more appealing to the visitors that would come on campus. 
	I am an adventurous person and many aspects in college will meet my desires of seeking new things. Something that I would like to do is “try every item in the dining hall" I already love the food the school provides, but they have a plethora of choices that I feel like I would never attempt to eat if I was more serious in my academics and extra-curricular activities. I would fulfill my temptation by eating any kind of food that each store has no matter how many calories, sodium, or sugar it would have. I also want to protest on “something that [would] mak[e] me angry” Since college has started I have become more passionate about certain issues such a feminism, civil rights, financial disadvantages, and other social movements. I finally want my voice to be heard and since I won’t be as involved in certain aspects due to the lottery, it would be the perfect time for me to become more involved in political activities. 
