My neighborhood is a very normal place. It contains basic things that every town has. The houses are built in a similar way. Each house is a 'colonial' style and has a nicely sized yard, usually next to a woods. My house was built in the 1990s, and was almost brand new when my family bought it. The people in my town are also very kind. The town is a mix of wealthier people and lower middle-class people that go well together. The town has a large difference in kinds of people -- like races, gender, orientation, and class. This is because it is between many different larger towns that border it. Most people were not born here, but move here from different places. A large amount of the town's population is from New York. Culturally, the town is pretty different because of these different kinds of people all living together in one place. The stores / shopping of the town is kind of boring, though. For the most part, the town has few shops or malls to shop at, which is kind of sad. In general, people go to the shopping centers for fun or to buy things, but many people travel out of the town to go buy stuff outside of food. For example, people take the roads (highways) out of the town to travel to New York or New Jersey to go to bigger shopping centers. However, the town does well financially and this does not effect most people's financial health. Small shops exist, and people go to them very often to keep the local shopping companies alive. The parks in the town are also nice to go to. There are not very many, but those that do exist are fun to do stuff at. I like to play sports such as baseball or basketball at the parks, and also enjoy walking around the local forests. The school system at my town is pretty good as well. It has a wide amount of teachers that help the student body. Coming from high school into college was strange, though. My town was not very big, so seeing people that came from larger town's with huge amounts of people was a bit difficult. However, the school system prepared me and many other kids for facing the real world well, and I am happy that they decided to make the classes hard enough to help us in the future. The chemistry my town had was good for my development as a person. Because it had a lot of different people, it ended up being a good educational experience for the world outside of my town, and for college. I think my town prepared me for my college experience, and gave me the skills I need to do well in a new environment. It was a good neighborhood to live in; safe, established, and a good place to raise kids.
