I live in Philadelphia Pennsylvania, For those who know Philadelphia they understand that it isn't the best city to live in, not only do I live in Philadelphia but I live around Wyoming. Wyoming Philadelphia is a neighborhood filled with very trashy and ghetto people. I hate the neighborhood so much but not being financially stable to move or having any good credit it is very difficult to move out of here to the better areas of Philadelphia. Even though Philadelphia itself isn't as classy or safe, but it has areas that are better then others. Wyoming Ave or as others refer to it as WYO was a very clean and classy area a while back, but it slowly began to feed into drugs, and violence, we have plenty of drug dealers who live in this neighborhood, they brain wash our children to become like them and sadly most people slowly become society ruiners. We have lots of violence in this area too, we have gun violence mainly, every week we hear gunshots and yes people do get killed. Another form of violence we have down WYO is robbery, everything good gets stolen, you can't even have a basketball court outside your house like a normal household, someone will steal it no matter how much you try to keep it safe. My house is on the same block of a park, this park and its corners is where all the drama and action happens to happen, we have people who go to this park just to smoke weed, we have people who stand on these corners to sell drugs, passing by this park puts fear into your heart, there is very bad language use, and fights break out left and right. Since the houses in this neighborhood are row houses everyone is stuck together, if the neighbors have rats, you most likely will be visited next, if the neighbors yell, you will hear them, you basically feel like you are living in the same household. Every weekend we have the neighbors sit on there porch with very loud music, beer and bbq, each house has different type of music on and no one has any respect to lower their music or turn it off, they begin celebrating the weekend as early as 9 am on Saturdays, and stop celebrating at 2 am. It gets really annoying and you hear lots and lots of yelling and screaming because mostly everyone is drunk or high. Recently we have had so many violent incidents in this neighborhood that the police is on the corners of every block, all day every single day. It has been a great deal of help, we haven't been seeing many drugs dealers on corners, or have anyone get killed, it has gotten safer knowing that the cops are around and no one has the balls to act out. Even though the weekend celebrations and the ghetto language is still a huge issue in this area it is getting back to being a normal neighborhood instead of being a very unsafe environment. 
