In my opinion, suburbs are the perfect blend of rural and urban, the ideal combination of both worlds. All over my hometown, you see people walking their dogs, laughing, mowing their lawn, and having a great time. At times, my hometown really has felt idyllic, where most people are satisfied with their lot in life. All of the homes are high value, and always look brand new and modern. People in my hometown don’t live beyond their means and are ordinary, good people. There are a wide variety of stores, activities, parks, nature walks, and enough space for everyone in my hometown. Rural areas have plenty of open areas and nature, but lack stores and events to attend. Urban areas have a rich night life and a plethora of restaurants, museums and other activities that are fun for the family, but to find nature again you’ll have to wander out of the city. The reason I described the differences in these types of living areas is because I believe suburban life is a projection of who I am, and my neighborhood is thus a part of me. My neighborhood, or my hometown as I would prefer to call it, does not lack in fun or beauty. At any end of town, North, South, East or West, there is an activity for someone. One of my favorite destinations is the kayaking we have at the local harbor. Another spot I could spend the whole day at (and I have) are one of the many beaches we have nestled into our town. I have the great luxury of living in a town that is only a short distance from the beach, while being right near the major cities and thoroughfares of my state. I wouldn’t have it any other way. If you want to spend the day shopping, there are ample choices, from large department stores to small Mom and Pop stores in the historic village that is part of the larger town. There are historic locations that tourists flock to, a harbor where you can take boat rides with tour guides, and even whale watching in the summer. And of course, I would be remiss to not mention the many high quality dining locations throughout the town, as well as casual restaurants. There is even a cinema on the main road of town which is packed with excited people when new movies come out! My hometown is one of the places in the world that I truly feel safe and happy. The best time to visit my town would be in the summer, when the State parks are teeming with activities, like swimming, horseback riding, volleyball, tennis, and family cookouts. Though my hometown isn’t large, it makes up for what it lacks in size with the wide range of entertaining activities there are for people of all walks of life. I could see myself being a tour guide for my hometown, directing people to the best hotspots so that they may best enjoy their stay. It really is a great place to live, and I am grateful every day that I was raised there.
