I live in a simple town. It has very few things to do in it. I love it no matter what other people say. The people around here are very nice and kind to every one. There are a lot of families with children who will play in the street outside their houses after school. No one really causes any trouble and we are all happy to have such good neighbors. When it comes to fun pretty much everything is in the next town over. We have a lot of different places to get food from though. That is one of the good parts of living in the Southern United States. All of the people who live here have strong opinions on food and what kind of food is the best. My neighborhood within my community is very large. It takes me more than five minutes to get out of. The houses here are very different from each other. My house only has one floor and is kind of small. Other houses in my neighborhood are very very large and have two or even three floors. This means that they have a lot of very different costs. Because the houses have very different costs there are a lot of very different people who live here. From poor students like myself to very rich old people and other people in the middle. There are a lot of police who live in my neighborhood too. This means my neighborhood has a lot of very different people in it. Every race is represented on my street and a large number of ages as well. Even though we are all so different we are happy living around all of the different people. The thing that most of the people who live in my neighborhood have in common is that they work in a different city. My neighborhood has lots and lots of people who live here and go to work far away in a bigger city. As I said there is not a lot of things to do around here including jobs. This means that everyone who lives in my neighborhood has to have a car to do anything. I do not have a car so I can not do much. I am very lucky that Web sites like Amazon deliver to my home. Amazon lets me buy all kinds of food even though I can not travel to my local store to buy any. The most important part of nature in my neighborhood is that there are a lot of lakes. The large number of lakes is where my town gets its name from. Many of the homes in my neighborhood are next to a lake or river. Sadly you can not swim in any of them because they have animals in them that will hurt people. We do not want any of the people in our neighborhood to get hurt so we put up signs telling them not to swim.
