My neighborhood is in a Texas suburb. It consists in about five city blocks. Houses are small, and the yards small, but well-kept. The borders are clearly defined. Busy streets close in the south and east sides, and a small park borders the north. A grade school blocks off the west side. I think there is little to distinguish my neighborhood from most in my area. About one half of the families have children in school. Almost all children walk from my neighborhood to the nearest high school, middle school, or grade school. The large grade school takes up about the area of two city blocks. Children's noisy shouts fill the afternoons and mornings. The neighborhood to the south is slightly more well-to-do. The street to our south seems to serve as a block to any communication between neighborhoods. The two neighborhoods share no streets. You cannot drive directly from my neighborhood to the one to the south. Also, cars speed past at all hours. The usual collection of cheap shops line the busy street to the east of my neighborhood. Every week, the same families visit the laundromat. A grocery store is at one corner of the intersection of the two busy streets. Two gas stations are at other corners. A cheap tattoo parlor is on the fourth. Other shops include a small burger joint, a pawn shop, a tax office, and an ice cream shop. The burger joint enjoys a good reputation in my neighborhood. The rest of the shops? Nothing different than you would find at thousands of intersections across the United States. Finally, the park, though small, is pleasant. Two acres hold a rec center, a public pool, and a playground. Local football and soccer clubs use the large field there for practice. Foot traffic between my neighborhood and the middle school is heavy. Many middle school children from our neighborhood and from the neighborhood to the north meet here after school. Sometimes, the younger kids visiting the park cause problems. None of these problems is especially prominent, but they are there. I have personally witnessed drug use several times in the past month. Cops are diligent in patrolling the area, though. Most residents in my neighborhood think the benefits of the park greatly outweigh the problems it sometimes brings. I visit the park often. It is the best part of my neighborhood. I like watching the frogs who live in the drainage ditch. They love the constant run-off from people's lawns. I like watching the children--two of them are mine--for whom the playground was built. It is surprising to me that so many parents drive their young children here. I like the park; it just seems strange that someone would drive to visit it, though. Nothing unusual, either positive or negative, affects the calm life of most residents in its streets. In summary, my neighborhood is adequate to its purpose. It is a typical, suburban, middle-class living space in America.
