My neighborhood is a quiet suburb outside of the city. Most of the houses are two stories and a few are one story. Within walking distance are a Target and a McDonalds. There are many churches nearby. There is a elementary school nearby and a lot of children live close to the school. Most of the streets have sidewalks and many people take walks in the afternoon. The electricity lines are under the ground, so there are no electricity polls on the streets. There are many cars parked on both sides of the streets when people are home. The neighborhood is busy with traffic most of the time. There is a community garden where people can grow food to share with everyone. The garden is not for growing flowers. Sometimes animals eat some of the food from the garden. We put up a fence so big animals can’t get in and eat the food. Many people grow food in the garden. The garden is open to all the neighbors. We are very proud of the community garden. My neighbors and I are friends with each other. Many often come to my house for a social visit. We talk about our careers and families, and watch sports games together. We sometimes celebrate July 4th together by lighting fireworks on our street. We often have bonfires in the fall at one of the neighbor’s house. There are very few neighbors that keep to themselves. We respect their distance and stay out of their business. Most of my neighbors feel like a close community though. We get along well with each other and spend time together. The neighbors who are friendly help each other out. We help each other with yard work by mowing their yard if someone is sick. Sometimes we borrow tools from each other to do small house projects. We recommend professionals we have used for house projects or tree removal to others. We share information about good or bad experiences we have had with doctors. We like to get other people’s opinions on different topics so I can feel better about our choices. I believe my neighborhood is special. I don’t think most neighbors get along like we do. I think that is not normal for most places. We are lucky because we are so similar to one another that we like each other. The majority of people have the same view of politics as everyone else. A lot of us care about the environment and agree there is evidence of global warming. If we start to disagree on something we stop talking about that topic right away. We don’t want to argue with each other and make anyone angry. For the most part we can communicate how we feel with one another. We have care of each other and I think how we live together as a community is extraordinary. 
