My neighborhood is a wooded area with a small population of people. There are many trees and a swamp. Most of my neighbors live in trailers. The road is made of dirt and rock, and is full of holes. It is a country area with a small post office and smaller store where people can buy basic food and supplies. Up the road there is a park. The park was once a mine but it was made into a lake with alligators, turtles, fish, and other wildlife. Many of the people here go there to fish for food. Most people here have dogs for pets, and there are feral cats that roam around. There are a long of beautiful birds, as well as raccoons, foxes, owls, coyotes, and a mountain lion has even been spotted. But there are no mountains in the area and we call it a panther. In the park there are woods and hills to explore. The hills were made when the miners left dirt behind, but now they have trees growing on them and it is pleasant to walk around with my dog. Some people ride horses through the park from a nearby horse farm. People ride Western style here because everyone is very country. In town there are the usual shops you see everywhere else in my country. There is very little that is special. It is the same restaurants, the same retail chains, and the same strip malls. It’s very boring and does not have much that is special. The roads are very crowded with traffic and there are no trains or good buses to help people get around. Everyone drives their own cars. People here are generally trusting, but there are a lot of different types of people. Some people have a lot of wealth while others are very poor. There are a lot of farms on one end of town. People grow a lot of fruit here. We are not very far from the sea. A lot of people go to the beach for fun. It is generally a safe place to live, with young and old communities. The schools are not good at all, however. Some people are very uneducated and rough. Many of my neighbors have a lot of junk in their front yards, and refuse to clean it up. Many people go to church and there are dozens of churches up and down the road. The murder rate is very low and there is not a lot of crime. But sometimes I hear people firing guns all day, and it is very loud. Up and down the roads you can see memorials for where people have crashed and died. The local media is very upbeat about the community and the majority of people seem like good, caring citizens. The area does not have much industry unless you go up into the main city. Most people go to the suburbs to live with their families. There are a lot of apartments in certain areas near the shopping. The area also has enormous numbers of insects. In the summer it is very hard to be outside, and the insects will get into everyone’s houses and food. It makes it very hard to live here. Most people have good lives though. Even the poor people have vehicles and electronics, and everyone is generally happy.
