I live in Washington Heights. Washington Heights is a neighborhood in New York City. It is a small neighborhood with a lot of people. The streets are quiet at night. There are trees along the street, and birds sing in the morning. Many people have pets. People like to walk their dogs and often let you pet them. A lot of the buildings are old, and families have lived there for years. You can walk for ten minutes and pass train stations, parks, schools, gyms, grocery stores, and restaurants. My favorite part of the neighborhood is the park. The park is beautiful, with a great view of the George Washington Bridge. The park’s beauty shows off nature and the different ethnicities in the neighborhood. Any day with nice weather, you can see people grilling and having parties outside. Sometimes, these parties mix together, and all of the different people get to know each other better and live side by side as friends. There is also a hospital in my neighborhood, which is good and bad. The hospital is close, which is nice in case of emergency. They also built a college building to provide classes to future and current doctors. But, the hospital is also bad because the employees are moving to the neighborhood. The movement of hospital employees to the neighborhood has changed the neighborhood for the worse. Most of the families in my neighborhood do not make a lot of money. Hospital employees do. The people who own the buildings in the neighborhood increased rent because hospital employees will pay to be close to their job. However, this means that some of the families cannot live in the neighborhood anymore. My family is one of those being pushed out, and we are not alone. Family stores that have been here for years are closing. Business chains are moving in their place. There was a grocery store owned by our neighbors that is now a health foods store. People are losing their businesses and their homes. The people who can pay to stay have to travel longer to get things they need. Friends and families move apart and lose touch. The parties in the park are fewer every year. This neighborhood that once burst with different skin colors grows lighter every month. However, this change has improved some parts of the neighborhood. Our neighborhood of mostly minorities has not had gas for four months. In the past month, the city finally began fixing the problem. But, this change is not because they care about the community. The work started because June is coming. June is the best time to move because students finish school and building owners increase rent. This means that some families paid more than they could and will not be around to see the problem fixed. I am applying to your college to make a difference in neighborhoods like mine. Cities should not treat some citizens differently because of skin color or because it is moving season. I hope to get a degree in politics, so I can run for office and make a change.
