I live in a small town. It is in the Midwestern Unites States and is somewhat rural. The economy and businesses here are supported by a small college that has some popularity for its programs in the arts. Because this is the nature of the town, it is busy in the school season, but lazy in the Summer. The main area of town is made to look like a New England town. It has small, locally owned stores that sell some clothing and general goods like toilet paper and groceries. It also has several popular restaurants that people will drive from out of town to enjoy. The post office and library are old buildings. They have been changed a little over the years, but they remain the same feel as before. This makes the town feel like a memory. There are two traffic lights in the town that control the cars and vehicles. It is a nice place to live. It is fun to walk down to the ice cream store and eat ice cream and talk to friends. My house is not in the town area, it is two minutes away by car. To get to my house, you must drive on a bridge over a busy four lane road. When you turn left to go on my street, you will see it is a dead end. This area has houses that were made 70 years ago for the teachers at the college. The teachers have slowly moved away to other places and now this street has small young families. I have a child and a back yard that he can play in. Other people that live on my street have the same, so my child can make friends. We have green grassy lawns and many big trees. My favorite trees are the ones that make flowers in the spring time. One of them has bright pink flowers that are filled with beauty. These flowers only live for a week, so they disappear fast, that makes me sad. My house has a small building in the back where we keep our tools. My child cannot go into the building. This is so he doesn't get hurt. The street we have ends on a small hill. The street ends because there is a sharp fall to a small river. This is part of a local park. There are dirt paths there where people can walk for exercise or for fun. This park is also behind my house. It was a field, but the town planted trees there. They are still small, but it is fun to watch them grow more each year. Each house on my street has a place to park a car. Each house is also for one family. There are not buildings on my street with many living areas. I like my area a lot. I grew up in this town, and I don't think that I want to leave. I am happy to have my family here with me.
