I live in the northern part of a city just south of a busy downtown street. However, one would think that the street I live on would be just as packed with cars and people but thankfully, it is not. The neighborhood is pleasant and quiet. There are large trees that line the street. Every house on the block is historical and there is not one house that is the same. All of the houses are at least two-stories. For being so close to downtown, the wildlife is abundant. There are many rabbits and squirrels that are quite tame. One might often catch a glimpse of a raccoon roaming through the side alleys. In addition to the wildlife, many of the neighbors have pets in fences surrounding their homes. People walk their pets down each street both in the morning and at night. One might occasionally see a stray cat. There is a lot of diversity in my neighborhood which is very enjoyable. Everyone in the neighborhood is friendly and would all lend a hand if needed. There is a bus stop at the end of the street that many people walk to because it is their choice of transportation. The neighborhood has a small but busy floral shop. The building that floral shop is in displays an attractive floral mural on the side. Across the street there is a pizza place that has been in the same location for many years. Many people from the neighborhood work at these two establishments. At the back of the neighborhood sits the best donut shop one could imagine. Early in the morning, there is always a sweet donut smell that fills the air. People from all over the city come to the well-known donut shop. The prices are reasonable and the donuts are exceptionally fresh. Across the street from the donut shop, one can visit the local drug store. Although it is a large drug store chain, the workers are friendly. Everyone in the neighborhood is happy that the drug store has about anything a person would need without going to the supermarket that is about 5 miles away. On the west side of the neighborhood, there is a library. It is a smaller branch of the larger downtown library. It is just another perk of the neighborhood. Residents of all ages from the neighborhood frequent the enjoyable events that are held almost daily. Just like any neighborhood, we have a gas station on the north side. It is always filled with cars. It is another convenient location for residents of the neighborhood to walk to if they need something without needing to travel by car to the grocery store. The residents of my neighborhood always keep their properties looking fantastic. Fresh cut lawns and flowers galore. During the spring, the sound of lawn mowers and grass always fill the air. People in my neighborhood love to walk down the streets and chat with other residents about things such as the weather and upcoming city events.
