The neighborhood is made of single family homes. Most of the homes are single story homes. About 40 percent of the homes are double story homes. All of the houses have a front yard and a back yard. Many of these houses have fenced in yards. The houses were all built in the 60s and 70s. They all look unique. Most homes have multiple cars parked in the driveway. Many homes also have cars parked at the curb. There is an elementary school in the middle. The elementary school is divided into three sections. The largest play ground is left open to the public on the weekends. Along with the play ground is a large blacktop which has four basketball courts and 4 four-square courts. There is also a large grass field that people use for soccer on the weekends. This field also has two baseball fields that are available for public use on the weekends. The neighborhood is quiet. Most of the residents are older around 50-60+. There used to be many young children in the neighborhood, but they have all grown up and moved away. There are a few young children in the neighborhood. Most of these children are grandchildren to the residents. The people keep to themselves. If you take a walk around the neighborhood people are pleasant. They will smile but it is not customary to talk to one another. When the school lets out during the week the neighborhood is loud. There is always a lot of traffic during school drop off and pick up. The children at the school are also very loud as they wait for their rides. At night the neighborhood is quiet, but you will hear siren from time to time. The neighborhood is very close to a fire station which the residents likes. There are a few gas stations in this neighborhood. A lot of the businesses in this neighborhood are family owned and have been around a long time. People in this neighborhood have pets. Dogs are often heard barking. Sometimes cats are seen in windows. Occasionally a dog will get out of their yard and wander the neighborhood. There is a grocery store about a half block away, and a liquor store in the opposite direction. There is also a larger shopping center with a variety of stores and restaurants. Majority of the residents are Vietnamese or Mexican American. They are typically members of the working class up to middle class. The houses in this neighborhood are worth a decent amount of money. It is a clean, quiet, uneventful neighborhood great for raising children. It is very close to a large shopping mall and movie theater. The shopping mall also has a family fun center with bowling and arcade games and bounce-houses.
