I live in a small rural community. It is located along and between two lakes. My home is in the middle of the two lakes. My home is white. It has a small front yard. It has a larger back yard. My backyard is full of trees. In these trees I have hung several bird feeders. I enjoy watching the birds feed. Predators come to try to attack the birds. I feel it is my responsibility to protect the birds. It is because of me that they come to the yard. I have methods for deterring bad animals. They work. There are not a lot of houses around me. The nearest one is well over two hundred yards away. The lakes are very beautiful. They are also full of fish. Crappie, bass, Several types of catfish, and many types of bluegill. I spend a lot of my free time fishing there with my wife. There is a group of people whom organize the lakes. They keep them clean. They also take in dues for lake projects. I would call it a lake parliament. At the entrance to where I live there is a small store. It has everything from snacks, to fuel, to bait. The people that live here are very simple and seem to be happy. We gather together for different fishing and hunting events. Living this far out has its downsides. Decent internet is very expensive. Medical help is very far away. It is a fifteen-minute drive to the nearest real town to get a meal or purchase groceries. The good parts are that there is very little crime, no pollution, and it is very quiet. All of the neighbors try to help each other out. All of the neighbors try to watch out for each other. Everyone is friendly. There are a lot of dogs and cats in this community. People love their pets. When you drive the roads you often see animals sleeping everywhere. It is very amusing. Today on my way back from fishing I saw a large dog laying on its side in the sun with four or five kittens sleeping on it. Things like that make me smile and glad to live here. Just about every evening you can smell someone grilling out. You will see a lot of people getting their exercise by walking along the roads. Get lots of friendly waves. On Saturdays in the Spring and Summer you usually just hear the soft sounds of lawnmowers off in the distance. The weekends are when the Lakes really come alive with activity. People are off work and do their recreational activities. Fishing, boating, swimming and socializing. Most of the gatherings happen at McKay Park. A small park with a pavilion between the two lakes at the dam. As it gets dark, the lanterns come out. I spend many evenings by the glow of a lantern, listening to the bugs and frogs make their sounds, while speaking with neighbors and watching fishing poles. I am very lucky to have found this place to exist in. 
