My neighborhood is on the east side of my town and is somewhat separated from the rest of the city by the lake. You access our end of town by crossing one of two bridges. We have many things that you would find in a typical neighborhood. Things like parks, restaurants, shops, stores, and of course homes. The east side of town is typically the newer end of town where a lot of development has taken place. There are smaller parts of the end of town that are not in the proper city so we won’t be discussing those. My neighborhood is near the lake and you drive right by the lake when you come into my street. You will notice that the lake theme is all around the neighborhood because of the street names and how often you cross or come into contact with the lake. That is what drew us to this end of town. My home sits on a corner lot with two driveways. One drive in the rear is for storage of a boat or something and the other drive leads to the garage. The corner is not usually busy but there is one stop sign to slow things down. As our neighborhood is established there are a lot of trees. Our neighbors have a lot of trees too. This makes for a beautiful fall season, but a lot of work when you have to clean the leaves up. Our end of town has two grocery stores. You can pick whatever one you want to shop at as they are across the street from each other. We have heard that people come from all over town to specifically visit our grocery stores because they are the best ones in town. There is also a large hardware store that has flowers and anything that you might need. There are many fast food restaurants along with good sit down restaurants in the area. There is also an airport that has a few planes that fly out of it along with a military helicopter depot. There is minimal noise from that. People generally do not work in the end of town but some do. Most travel outside of town or to the offices in town or near the many industrial plants that we have in our town. Some also work at the hospital as we have two and they make up the major employer in town. The lake is a neat thing to have in the center of town. We have a boat and use it often to get out on the water and enjoy what we have in the city. There are many parks that are adjacent to the lake and make for good scenery and good fishing of course. The lake is just big enough to enjoy with a smaller boat and not have the large wakes from bigger boats. Overall our city is a very good and affordable place to live.
