We live in a suburb in Western Kentucky. The nearest city is Nashville. It is about an hour's drive away. That said, we do not go there often. Within the city I live, there are only a few good restaurants. It is mostly choosing between fast food when it comes to dining out. Commerce is lacking but improving. Recently the city built a strip mall with several great stores (including a ULTA beauty store), and we enjoy visiting it to eat the nearby Panera, which is also new. Perhaps the best thing this small city offers is that nature, true and pure nature, is just a five-minute drive away. From the scenic overlook of Pilot Rock to the open fields used for farming, the county is very pretty. Like many smaller cities (and poorer ones), there are a number of ghettos sprinkled throughout the city. What is strange, however, is that many of the nicest neighborhoods and subdivisions are "backed right into" or bordering a true ghetto. Crime still is not that bad here. The police force is smaller in number than previous places I have lived, and most of the law enforcement officers here are physically it and well trained. The reason for that is the nearby Army base and the fact that many choose to go into law enforcement after finishing their military obligations. This city is also home to the state mental hospital, which is convenient if one happens to suffer from mental illness. The structure was built in the 1870s and has remained functional to this day. It is well staffed. The building is absolutely enormous and somewhat eerie, but patients find themselves relaxed overlooking the beautiful grounds from one of the many outside patios found on the units. Education here is not great. The average IQ in the school systems is just 92, which is a full eight points below the national average. Drugs are largely to blame. Parents pass on those addictions, and those children end up becoming parents to other dull-witted children. Albeit while some may be able to make a living with low intelligence (at least what is measured), many struggles and this town is a population highly-dependent on welfare and social services like EBT (food stamps) and Medicaid/Medicare (health insurance that is free). Despite these negatives, this city is still a rather desirable place to live. The people are polite. Good amenities may not be here, but they are at least within driving distance. It is without hesitation that I say it would be fine to raise children here. While other areas may be more affluent, there is no substitution for the kindness shown by residents here. Kentucky as a whole has a negative perception from the majority of the country. But this area is rather nice. While liberals likely would view it as some sort of hell on earth, the conservative population here does its best to honor what it considers the principles and behaviors of Godly Christians. As one might guess, churches abound and there is no shortage of options for those desiring religious services. Overall, while there may be many things this town lacks, it makes up for them all in the quality of its people. 
