If I had to use any combination of words to describe my neighborhood for this survey, it would have to be part of a college application process that can be used to determine who the neighbor really is. First things first, everything starts way up there where the road starts because there usually is some type of intersection that goes in a loop where many people consider it to be the first actual part of town. When you are there, everything is clean and looks nice which is a great thing because this acts as a nice invitation hub for many people who are traveling from out one region into the other which makes it look much cooler than it actually is. The houses are really nice, there are nice fenses that are used to divide ones area from the other; this type of practice can be easily found throughout the United States because it provides a nice space for people to start without losing their privacy. The people are great to say the least, every once in a while I come out and meet the neighbors or they invite me to do things with them; I have a really attractive neighbor that is always coming in and out of my house which is really sweet because she is always coming here to cook us fish considering how bad the smell can actually get. Her husband also does come by every once in a while to check on his wife which is really sweet because he just loves to take pictures of her in bed with me! the stores are amazing; we do have one of the biggest stores that can be used to get whatever anybody desires starting from fresh fruits and vegetables to the most expensive new computer device. This provides a nice place for everything to occur because there has to be a flow that makes it much easier for people to go through than not to at all considering the weather that we usually get around here being very dry. I like to also spend some time at the park which is really cool because there is always some type of water floating there; I love to see water float because it looks like a thin line that goes across a body that really does affect me. Everything else is also amazing, I just do wish for you to be able and see the things for the way they actually are. There are always people doing environmental degradation which impacts me in a negative way considering I like to keep my area clean, but they do not matter. They simply come here to poach the lions and zebras that are available in our wild life to use them for scientific research considering we are one of the very few places left that still do genetic testing. We are always doing new things here as we like to take care of ourselves and our nature which we value the most.
