To describe my neighborhood, I will focus on four points that my neighborhood contains. The four points will be houses, people, stores, and parks. The name of the city is East Point, Georgia. The name "East Point" derives from the fact that this is the terminus of the Atlanta & West Point Railroad in the east of the community. The city is about 140 years old and has many historic sights within the city. To begin, the housing in my neighborhood reflects a very mixed socio-economic class of citizens. Their are housing communities where the homes are owned. A second type of housing is rentals where people rent town homes and apartments to live. Regardless of the type of housing it is aimed at people who are of a professional and working class of citizens. The community allows you to settle in one of the city's most desired locations. However, the city can at times appear more concerned with its tourists since it is located 3 miles from the airport. Local tours of my community gives you the essential info on various places to eat, relax, find temporary housing, and accommodation for successful visits such as planning for a family reunion. It is important to know that the community was derived from a historical event known as the civil war. It was once a major point where the military was stationed. Secondly, the people are mostly industry professionals from the travel professional, educators, and state employees. Most families include children that attend the local community schools and colleges. They are friendly neighbors yet very personal and private in nature. They mind their business and generally are seen coming and going from their homes. There is a local government which consists of a mayor and city council. The utilities for housing are a major source of income for the city. Third, there are a large variety of stores n the neighborhood where I live. The stores vary from restaurants, to variety of shopping venues from Target, to Ross. There are over 100 restaurants, and 200 personal shopping stores where people can by items that range from clothes to items to put in their homes such as furniture. Many television shows use the restaurants and venues located in the community to film, as the television industry is a growing part of the community base. Netflix, and Bravo are two of the major television companies that adorn the local attractions for filming. Many fortune 500 companies call East Point home to their headquarters for their businesses. Last, their are two local parks located in the community. The first part includes a lake where community members can jet ski on a hot day. Jet skies are available for rental on a first come first serve basis if you do not own one. The second park consist of nice tall green grass and trees where on can have a family picnic, or jog with a friend. Railroads run through the community and can be heard in the night in the park along with the natural sounds of the animals that also live in the park such as owls, possums, and squirrels. The city is also known for its large population of deer. Deer can be seen frequently and increase their visibility in the winter season. The neighborhood is beautiful, with a nice mixture of cultures, races, and fun things to do. The housing, people, stores, and parks in my community are inviting, and would allow visitors to enjoy themselves as well. New business and new housing developments are on the rise in the community as there is still a lot of undeveloped land that commercial real estate desire to obtain. There is also one local library for those who like to read, or need to explore other media based options such as computer usage, or listening to music. It is one of the best metropolitan Atlanta based suburbs to live in.
