My neighborhood is very nice. I live in an apartment. My work is twenty five minutes away. I live in a one bedroom apartment. I live with my girlfriend. There are a lot of people in my apartment complex. A lot of these people have dogs and children. There are a lot of trees around my neighborhood. The stores are very close to the apartment. It takes about 5 minutes to walk to the stores. Getting groceries is very easy. If you are hungry, there are a lot of restaurants close by. The food is really good. There is ice cream. There is fast food. There are sit down places. There are breakfast places. There are seafood stores. The groceries are expensive. If you want to run there are a lot of trails close by. Traffic is not too bad. My neighborhood is far away from other cities. The people who live near by are all very different. A lot of them are my age. Some of them are families. Most of them are white. The apartments are more expensive than average. The houses are very expensive. There are also condos. The neighborhood has a lot of schools around. I think that the schools are very nice. There are a lot of children that go to these schools. There are also a lot of roads. The rides are wide. It makes driving easier. It takes 20 minutes to go to the beach. The beach is very nice. When it is hot there are a lot of people that go to the beach. I do not like going to the beach when there are people. There are gyms around my neighborhood. The weather is always nice. In the winter it is not too cold. It gets a little hot in the summer. It has been raining a lot. It used to never rain before. It is nice to go to the park when it is warm. People bring their dogs to the park. A lot of children go to the parks after school. I do not like going to the parks when children are there. It is not fun when there are a lot of people. There is only one place to go for food and movies. Everybody goes to the one place after work. It is very crowded on the weekends. They should build more stores so that there is more to do. It is quiet in the neighborhoods. The only noises come from the dogs or the police. The police are very close by. They do not have a lot to do. People drive nice cars in my neighborhood. There are a lot of apartments around. A lot of offices are next to the apartments. People do not have to drive too far to work. There is one college in my neighborhood. I know a few people who go to this college. It is very nice. I do not know if it is a good college. I like living in my neighborhood.
