This is a very surface level piece, just a pretty knick-knack. I had printed a box that housed an LED for an unrelated piece and liked the way the plastic diffused the light, so I wanted to take advantage of that with a print and have a piece that benefits from the gradient created by an LED and varying plastic thickness/opacity. I took visual elements from another work of mine, Detritus, as the visual basis. I used nCloth to fit the flower to the orb. A small hole in the base of the orb can fit the LED, and the flower is removable.
I originally had made a small flower ring (maybe more of a finger cuff?), but it was too delicate to print properly.
The ring was still pretty awkward, but I became a lot more familiar with the menus through this project, which made it much easier to follow tutorials. I used a premade flower and just cut off the bits I didn’t need. I appropriated retopology tools, magnet link and quad draw, to make the branch shape around a cylinder that had been shaped to be vaguely similar to a finger.
I think Maya’s retopology tools are something I will definitely be making use of in the future as I expand further into character sculpting, and using the nCloth tool to fit one object to another in a natural way is a useful tool as well. On the other hand, I’ve become pretty disenchanted with 3D printing. The finicky nature along with the amount of time it takes to print have convinced me that 3D models are often better experienced in their native, digital environment. I’m looking forward to a time in the future when the technology for 3D printing has advanced to be less of a hassle, though I’m sure it’s already much better now than it was in the not-so-distant past.  
I liked the idea of the space theme that I had seen in several VR spaces. Being able to explore space is something that universally fascinating I think. Rather than create something realistic, I chose to recreate a few far away planets in a color scheme that I like. I imagined it also being in VR and being able to walk or sit in this space and have it be a peaceful experience.  
It's nothing deep or meaningful, was just a calm, magical place to escape to.
In creating this scene, I learned how to use the texture painting tool and how to use all sorts of different textures. I learned probably the easiest and least resource intensive way of getting a cloud, thought it’s certainly less than what I wanted.
I think this relates to why I find game worlds so great. I really want to create this fascinating, fantastical worlds that you can’t experience in real life. I’m really looking forward to seeing where VR and even AR expands on the topic of fantasy and just spaces that need nothing more from their participants that just to be.
