I am a multidisciplinary artist with a focus in digital media, specifically Photoshop painting. I primarily create 2D character and creature illustrations but have been branching into 3D as well. I often create works that are soft and beautiful with a peaceful mood as a base and then warp them with something darker or add other moods as an undertone. Ideally, I want each piece of art I create to be something that is visually impressive, pleasing, enjoyable by anyone while also containing an expanded narrative or a deeper theme that can be discerned by viewers that want more. I keep politics, social issues, and self-expression subtle, but themes of mortality, feminism, and the self are not uncommon backdrops reflected in my work. My goal as an artist is to work as a character designer, illustrator, or sculptor for games, so much of my art is practice in that pursuit.

I have little desire to show my work in a gallery or appeal to a curator. As mentioned, I want to create art for other media like games or film. Games in particular can be such a powerful narrative tool and have always been a hobby for me. It’s like creating an entirely new world that you can escape to. I want to have a part in creating those worlds and the people and creatures who inhabit them. I don’t mind if my name isn’t well known or no one remembers me or knows me, I just want to earn a living doing something I don’t hate.
As the prompt for this bit of art dealt with the body, I made this piece expressing how I feel about my own body through the ideal prosthetic that would hide me from view. I am very self-conscious of my body and my appearance, to the point where it becomes a wall to proper social interaction, and wish I could just be invisible or hidden anywhere I go, so I tried to create a shell made of folded wings.  
While this was an incredibly awkward first trek into Maya, I did learn some basic navigation in Maya, how to sort of use symmetry, basic shapes, lights, and rendering frames. I had a lot of trouble not inverting faces or getting the program the function the way I wanted.  
In a broader view, I think if I had the time I could now make this a lot better, especially if I could take it instead into ZBrush and really make a creature out of it. I think maybe something hideous that hides in a beautiful winged shell could be an interesting monster.  
Body scanning techniques and the concept of self expression only really work in harmony when the artist feels their body is a good representation of their own self. For people confident enough to dance for motion capture or have scans of themselves 3D printed, this is a powerful tool, but for some, a self portrait needs more than and exclusive of the body.  
