Moving forward from this position, a visitor may feel compelled to sit upon those large rocks scattered between the fountain and the dome. The aforementioned principles remain present but are expressed a little differently here.  
Immediately noticeable are aspects that express both utilitas and venustas. The rocks and fountain create a natural and peaceful reprieve from the surrounding city because a viewer is likely to sit facing away from the road, and the gentle sound of the fountain helps to muffle the traffic sounds in the background. This spot is also perfect for getting a close up view of the dome, which conveniently grants its viewers a huge chunk of shade as the day begins to heat up.  The view, the peace, and the shade make this little space a magnet for observers.  
The sparkling gem of the City Hall, the dome is certainly worth stopping a moment to admire. A cylinder of large, even, white blocks partially encircles its glass exterior and visually divides the base of the rotunda from the dome. The sun shining on the smooth, blank curvature creates an appealing gradient of shadow along the blocks and an even more stunning effect on the glass, which reflects the sun brilliantly and casts blueish shadows on the plaza below. While one side is guarded from the light by a spherical brise soleil, the horizontal bars fall away from part of the dome as if one side had been sliced off to reveal the glassy orb underneath. The remaining clear surface is further broken up by a mechanical looking pattern of metal rods and wires suspension, creating the echoed pattern of even blocks.  
Unique to this angle is the juxtaposition of three visual styles in harmony. The water and rocks appear natural, while the wires and rods have an almost industrial look to them, and the glass and stone all appear very modern.  
Despite the gentle fountain and precarious looking wires over fragile glass, the same elements that contributed to firmitas before, continue to do so here. Not only do the metal bars unify the piece, they also feel structured and sturdy.  
Continuing around the dome, a visitor is given another view, one which lacks the metal bars and gives a fuller view of the rod and wire pattern. Other elements of the main building also begin to reveal themselves as not just architectural decoration, but also as usable elements of the building and space, like balconies and staircases. Even bike racks and trash cans have that enduring pattern of repeating metal bars.
The empty space is much narrower on the building side of the dome, but it’s speckled with a few metal tables, and a few more hide under the shade of the building. A new feature of the encircling wall is also revealed. Walkways are cut out of the wall which allow people to cut through the space from the other streets. Cleverly, the position of the dome and walkway subtly encourage visitors to walk around the larger part of the open space, perhaps to prevent disruption of events. Even with this guided detour, the path is still an effective shortcut and can perhaps be read as a message welcoming in people from all directions of the city.  
