The statue called Victory Salute by artist Rigo 23 stands tall and proud at the center of San Jose State University. Crafted from ceramic and fiberglass over a steel frame, it’s as sturdy and immovable as it appears, and 3D scanning technology preserves the likeness of the men it depicts . The open clearing around it and its sheer size make it one of the first things a visitor or new student would notice when visiting the campus. It features two men on stone base and is larger than life and impossible to miss at a towering 22 feet tall. The tiled hexagons covering its surface reflect the light, transforming the sculpture into a beacon for anyone walking through the area on a sunny day or even at night when a spotlight ensures its enduring status as the centerpiece of the university’s lawn. The sculpture is full of interesting details that stand out from the rest of the piece and create a desire to know more about its history and significance.
The statue is intimidatingly large, but it’s eye-catching for many more reasons. Design principles are hard at work to make the sculpture hold a viewer’s interest. From the side, the sculpture is asymmetrical because one half is notably emptier than the other, but from the front or back there’s something close to symmetry in the raised fists on either side. The shining medals on the chests of both men create a striking focal point, and the linear motion created by their straight posture and raised arms leads the viewer’s eyes all around the statue and through its many symbolic details. The hexagons repeated all over the surface also create a unified design.  Because the statue uses a lot of dark tones, the bright stripes on the outfits and the Olympic rings immediately make the it recognizable as a piece honoring athletic accomplishments, but the strong silhouette leads a viewer to realize there’s definitely something more to it.
While a good sculpture on design principles alone, actual history makes it far more interesting and brings the sculpture to life through its symbolism. These two men were athletes named Tommie Smith and John Carlos, and they were gold and bronze medalists respectively in the 1968 Olympics for the 200 meter dash. This time period was chaotic on many fronts with the Vietnam War in progress and protests for equal rights for African Americans happening all across the country. Martin Luther King Jr.’s assassination had taken place recently, giving even more fire to the latter movement. Smith and Carlos decided to use their stage at the Olympics ceremony for a silent protest. Their gesture comprised each of them standing shoeless in black socks with a single black gloved fist raised. The protest occurred during the American national anthem and initially went unnoticed for the most part, but a photo taken by John Dominis made the event front page news.  
The act was brought to the attention of the International Olympic Committee president Avery Brundage, who caused the two men to be expelled from the Olympics over what he claimed to be an inappropriate salute. Brundage has been accused of having been a Nazi sympathizer because of his lack of objection to the Nazi salute in 1936.  
