My name is Alice Smith, and I am writing to apply for an internship with DCI. I am passionate about educating and improving myself, as well as the world around me, and for many years I have had in mind that film and other visual mediums are the best way for me to go about this.  I love the art of story telling, whether the story is fact or fiction, and while I enjoy writing, I was long ago enthralled by the impact that a medium such as “motion pictures” can have.  Having just gotten my Associate of Sciences degree in Film and Video, I feel I am only just beginning my education, and a company such as DCI is the sort of company I would not only love to start with, but remain with. I am looking for a place to start my career, my interests being in film, documentary, digital video, pre-production, production, and postproduction of these.  I am willing to relocate at my own expense to whatever location offers the most opportunity, or to Silver Springs, MD.
	 Being able to work with Discovery would give me an inside look at how cultural and natural documentaries and films are produced, and I would like to devote my career to informative and creative films that, even if only in a small way, help to enlighten, educate, and improve people, as well as expose parts of the world which we overlook in our day to day lives. I would love the chance to work with experienced people who have already worked in the field, and learn as much as possible while contributing to the projects. I believe there's no education like that which can be received from experts on the job.
	I am a dedicated, honest, sincere, and hard-working person who has learned that a positive attitude and unfaltering dedication are two of the most important tools in getting any project done successfully.  These are things I think everyone in this business should possess.  We’re here because this is what we want to do, and the end result is what validates what is often extremely hard work.  I am passionate about “discovery”, so much so that it is not enough for me to learn about something just for myself.  I always have the urge to share what I have learned, and I feel that is a big part of what the Discovery Channel is all about.  Everything we see, hear, and experience makes us understand ourselves and our world a little bit better, and the programming DCI produces is all about seeing, hearing, and learning.  
