Though Lily Collins is new to the list this year, she’s not new to fame. She’s been acting since she was two, no doubt having received a bit of a career boost from having a famous father. She has been in eight movies, including a starring role alongside Julia Roberts in Mirror, Mirror, as well as hosted TV spots and written numerous articles for various magazines. In addition, she’s a model who has been on the cover of Spain’s Glamour. Her latest role is in the upcoming film based on New York Times Bestselling young adult series, The Mortal Instruments, in which she plays Clary Fray. Anticipation over this wildly popular series, which promises to become a wildly popular movie, may have a lot to do with her position at the top of the list.

So as you browse the web for your favorite celebrities, be careful which links you click, and what passwords you use to sign up for daily news digests. 


Artificial Intelligence is nothing new—at least the idea of it isn’t. It’s basically what we call the ability of a machine to process information and ideas like a human brain. A more scientifically appropriate definition says that artificial intelligence is the ability of a synthetic machine to perceive its environment and then act on its perception to achieve success.  The term was first coined by Alan Turing in the middle of the 20th century. 
Perhaps most famously realized  in the fiction of Isaac Asimov with his Robot Series, it can also be seen in numerous other popular culture examples. The HAL computer aboard the 2001 Space Odyssey ship possessed artificial intelligence. The android known s Data on Star Trek: The next Generation had an extremely advanced degree of AI. And of course, the machines of the Terminator franchise or either Battlestar Galactica series exhibited some of the most advanced fictional AI of all.
Of course that’s all speculative fiction, and when it comes down to the reality, AI has proven to be tremendously difficult to realize by even the best scientists in the field.
It’s important to note that artificial intelligence is not an all or nothing concept. A machine can possess it to varying degrees, from the chess-playing computer Deep Blue that first beat a world chess champion, to the far from realized fictional examples above. 
So what’s keeping us from realizing the remarkable feat of true artificial intelligence, despite all our other advances in technology? The main issue is that machines just don’t have common sense. Human beings can deduce a large quantity of facts based on known data. One example suggests that the average human, when made aware that the president is in Washington, will deduce that the president’s legs are also in Washington. The problem with machines is that they can only determine this fact if they have been programmed to know that when the president is in Washington, his legs are also in Washington. The lack of common sense in a machine precludes it from being truly intelligent. 
