This one comes as no surprise—they are, after all, little better than professional liars. Their job is to make you buy things you didn’t know you needed. They work in tandem with the complex psychology of influencing people to do, want, be, and love whatever it is the client is selling. They take their jobs seriously, and get paid remarkably well, all things considered.


A step up—or perhaps a step down-- from local politicians, State officials rank quite a few percentage points lower on the trust scale. It could be said that this is inversely proportionate to the level of responsibility and amount of influence these politicians have, but it’ a sad thing when the increase in power corresponds to a decrease in trust.

There are about as many jokes about car salesmen as there are about lawyers. Because car prices can change from one deal to the next, people are on their guard around these professional wheelers and dealers. They work on commission, so their goal of putting money in their pocket is directly contrary to your goal of keeping that money. Head to a used car lot, and it becomes an even more dangerous place for the mishandling of trust.

One might almost feel compelled to feel sorry for Members of Congress—almost universally condemned as absolute wastes of space and time, almost every American thinks these leading politicians are doing a terrible job. Considering they have one of the most important jobs in the world—running one of the strongest nations on Earth—it’s fairly disturbing to consider the American public may be right in how little trust they place on these men and women.

In some sense, a lobbyist could be seen as a noble profession. They’re the men and women who appeal to the lawmakers of the nation on behalf of ‘the people’. Whether it’s representing a Native American tribe looking to reclaim stolen land, or groups of people made ill by some unlegislated corporate polluter, lobbyists have the potential to effect great and important change in this country. Too bad most seem to be high-paid representatives of enormous corporate entities whose only goal is to protect the interest of potentially dangerous businesses. At least that’s what most people seem to think. While politicians’ jobs seem to be making poor decision for the country, it’s the lobbyists who drive those decisions with underhanded methods such as bribery, election assistance, and maybe worse.

This list is not to say these are career fields to avoid—they are occupations that desperately need the honesty and integrity of the people who are most likely to avoid them. 
