	In any novel, the actions of it's characters are deliberately thought out by the author, causing every event  or detail  to be of significance.  As Stephen Dedalus evolves, the reader is able to see the development of his ideas.  As Stephen writes, his own comprehension is increased along with the reader's, emphasizing the importance of the written word, and of artistic endeavors with words.

	In Albert Camus's novella, The Stranger, his narrator and main character maintains throughout the book an antisocial revolt against common values, shown by his disinterested feelings towards events that occur in the book.  Such acceptable displays of emotion which are rejected by Mersault are rejected by his very nature.  He feels no grief at his mother's death, nor does he take care to at least appear grieved.  Later on in the story he fails to show any social conscience as he befriends an abusive womanizer.  After the murder, he does not feel or display remorse, as is expected, further rebelling by an unusual refusal to 'take god into his heart'.  Finally, his desire to be surrounded by a hating mob at his execution is an ending statement which displays his personal rebellion.
	Any one who does not show a certain amount of grief at the death of his mother will be looked askance at.  It is considered unnatural by many cultures not to shed  tears at such events.  Mersault, for his part, felt no inclination of any kind for such displays, acting more like a disinterested observer than a bereaved son at his mother's funeral.  In fact, it hardly even concerned him when on introspection he marked his lack of feeling.  Many people would be mortified at themselves if they failed to feel the proper emotions of sadness and loss, but not Mersault.  He was in effect refusing to conform to typical social conventions.  His mother was dead; he accepted his lack of grief without worrying how his feelings, or lack of, would be compared to the norm.  It is a rebellion of sorts for a man to not care how other's will view him.  It marks him as a man who has no desire to win public approval.  Mersault does not cry, does not sympathize with his mother's heartbroken and aged suitor.  He rebels against typical and acceptable behavior so far as to smoke a cigarette at the funeral.
	Mersault's friendship with Raymond does nothing to prove he feels typical social responsibility.  He knows very well that Raymond is a low life woman beater, but he indifferently accepts the man's friendship and even goes so far as to aide Raymond's vengeance by writing a cruel letter to the female victim.  He is careless of the fact that he is an accomplice of violence, and society certainly frowns on such accomplices.  He, however, does not care.
	Another display of Mersault's antisocial attitude occurs while he awaits execution.  The chaplain claims that every man who has been in line for execution has turned to god.  Mersault however, refuses to follow this expected path.  Though religion is a major part of life in France, Mersault rejects it completely, baffling the expectations of the chaplain.
