In the special teams, the Buckeyes do need a new kicker and punter. Sean Nuernberger is the likely choice at kicker, but he has a history of injuries. Freshman Blake Haubeil will be the punter.

Urban Meyer teams are expected to be the cream of the crop, and expectations are much the same this year in 2017. His recruiting ensures that the turnover in prospects is never a disaster, and the Buckeyes still made the National Semifinals last season in what was considered something of a down year. Barrett is going to have to rediscover his “freshman mojo” and the Buckeyes made the requisite hirings to help ensure that. Should OSU get top-notch production from Barrett’s passing options, there is no reason that the Buckeyes cannot contend for a National title.

The Florida State Seminoles should be able to build on last season’s 10-win campaign, even after losing its leading rusher Dalvin Cook to the NFL. At QB, the Seminoles return sophomore Deondre Francois, and Cook should be adequately replaced by Jacques Patrick, who rushed for 664 yards and five yards per carry over the past two seasons. The Seminoles also landed a top recruit at tailback in Cam Akers.  Akers had 87 yards on 10 carries in the spring game, and at 5’11” 213 pounds, he can get physical while also possessing plenty of breakaway speed. Expect Akers to be eased in early in the year, but by the end of the season he could be seeing plenty of touches to help diversify the Seminoles offense.

This pair of running backs, along with Francois himself, will give head coach Jimbo Fisher the delicate balance between the run and pass that has defined his success at FSU. Francois threw for 3,350 yards and 20 TDs a year ago, while throwing just seven interceptions. 

The Seminoles averaged 33 points per game against FBS opponents, and Francois will only improve with that year under his belt. His timing and decision making can bear some improvement, but he has a strong and accurate arm that Fisher should be able to take full advantage of. His starting receiving options will be Nyqwan Murray and Auden Tate, both juniors, while at tight end he has a returning starter in Ryan Izzo. 

Offensively, the biggest question marks for the Seminoles are on the line. Josh Ball is a redshirt freshman who should be able to spell Roderick Johnson (who departed for the NFL), but the other spots are mostly up for grabs. It will take some masterful development by the Seminoles OL coaches to help get the most of the talent at the other positions.

Defensively, the Seminoles should improve this year, and there is one headlining reason: Derwin James. He suffered a season-ending injury a year ago, but he was an absolute monster in 2015 when he recorded 91 tackles and 4.5 sacks as a freshman. The Seminoles ranked No. 2 in the nation last year in sacks, and even with DeMarcus Walker leaving for the NFL, FSU has plenty of bruising options to put pressure on opposing quarterbacks. 

