The Notre Dame Fighting Irish had a tough 2016. An independent school with a typically rigorous schedule, it got the best of the Fighting Irish as they finished just 4-8. Notre Dame, however, should be fully loaded for a vast improvement on that, and the return of junior quarterback Brandon Wimbush will have plenty to do with it. The focus will be on going deep and long most plays, and Wimbush has the arm and receivers to make it a smashing success, along with offensive coordinator Chip Long drawing the plays for it to thrive. Wimbush will have four starters returning on the line in front of him and a couple of them could be 2018 first round picks in the NFL draft. Mike McGlinchey and Quenton Nelson are the most talented of that four. 

The skill positions, too, have talent returning. Notre Dame operated with plenty of three-wide formations during the spring, sporting receivers all above 6’4” in height. Equanimeous St. Brown is the leading WR of that group, but junior TE Alize Mack will also be one to keep an eye on as a player who can breakout and have a huge season. Wimbush should be more than enough to replace the departed and talented Deshone Kizer, but the story will be how well he adapts to Kelly’s playcalling. If he makes smart decisions, he has the talent available at receiver to guide a very effective offense. Last year, the Irish averaged 30.9 points per game and ranked No. 53 in the nation, and improving that is imperative if the team is to trudge through its schedule, which features Michigan State (Sept 23), North Carolina (Oct 7), and Miami (FL) on Nov 11.

The defense has a new coordinator in Mike Elko. Elko comes from Wake Forest, and Kelly will not be patient in expecting Elko to revamp the defense. Notre Dame gave up 27.8 points per game last season, ranking No. 62, while its rush defense was ineffective in allowing 182.4 yards per game and ranking No. 72 in the nation. Elko’s strongest position is linebacker, where the Irish return three captains in Nyles Morgan, Drue Tranquill and Greer Martini. Morgan shined last year as the defense’s best player, and Tranquill moves from safety to linebacker, where he should be more of a difference maker, still. At OLB the Irish will need major improvement, as the team struggled in making tackles for loss last season. 

The defensive line and secondary are areas of concern, however. Up front the team will look at Daelin Hayes and Jerry Tillery. There is a lack of depth and experience on the line, and the team is not loaded with pass rushers. At back, the Irish will start three sophomores, and only one starter returns in the secondary (Julian Love). Notre Dame is expecting improvement from its defense, but does it have the necessary components to even ensure that is possible, or it simply hoping that Elko works magic? It is unclear.
