The neighborhood of my humble abode and domicile is nestled in your typical Midwestern sleepy town. The houses are alive with character and each can tell a story of their own from children's laughter to seasons of heartache with the passing of time. American flags can be seen hanging over every home as patriotism is the simple ethos of the atmosphere! Our town has seen both good and bad times and is replete with people who have remained long enough to remind you of the facts. Sentimentalism is in no short supply here. There are still small mom and pop storefronts here that accept cash as the only tender. They are filled with wood floors that creak as much as the bones of the store owners that stand smiling behind the cash registers. You can still find old Coke machines that sell soda in a bottle and walk up to the neighborhood ice cream stand for a treat. There are beautiful parks here with walking trails and benches for those who wish to pause, reflect and enjoy the sound of silence. You can breathe again in our town like ours and even hear yourself think if you wish. Trees are in no short supply, a rarity in the city. There are rolling hills in our parks with flowers that beacon you to throw off your shoes and run barefoot. We have not one but three rivers to enjoy in our town. We also enjoy many lakes. Here the boats and swimmers gather every weekend to cool off and get relief from the hot sun. Simple pleasures are experienced here with the only required expense is just to be fully present in the joy of living here. There are many who live in Chicago who drives nearly three hours to spend their weekends here. These weary travelers in their hustle have had the wisdom to purchase a place to actually live each weekend. For those too caught up in making a living our town at least presents them with a place to live. A town alive is worth the drive. Every year on the 4th of July our town becomes the capital of Indiana for just a day. On this day our little town is packed with thousands to see the largest parade in Indiana. The celebration has for decades, historically began with a powerful fly over of F14 Jets that always brings thunderous applause from the onlookers. Our patriotism is in full force on this day and the veterans are always treated with respect, reverence, and honor. The center of our town has a courthouse where a famous fifty-foot statue of Santa Clause is erected each year. Nearby lies Santa’s house as well, where children can present their letters for Santa. Inside he is seated each year in the evenings for two weeks. Seeing Santa as a child was a staple and provided a rich memory for anyone that has grown up here. Memories, simple and true are what our town has always been about! 
