My neighborhood is loaded with beautiful houses but some of them are a bit too close together. When there are only a few feet between homes I think this is a drawback because you lose some sense of privacy. There are many other beautiful aspects of my neighborhood such as the city maintained parks which are sprinkled throughout. I often enjoy strolling through the neighborhood and stopping by the parks to refill my water bottle and take a rest. Sometimes there are people walking their dogs and I like to stop and watch them. There are always a large variety of dogs from big to small and all kinds of breeds. There are some dogs which are aggressive and are kept on a leash and some dogs are tiny and allowed to run around without one. I do think it is a risk to let your small dog run around though because if someone with a bigger aggressive dog decides to let them off the leash and they attack your dog you risk some serious vet bills or even losing your dog. Aside from the parks, there are gas stations, convenience stores, and other small shops scattered throughout the outskirts of the neighborhood as well. There is also a hospital and a couple of Urgent care medical centers. Another common sight of the landscape is train tracks. The city used to be a train station that expanded into a town so trains remain an important part of the town's history. There are also a lot of old dilapidated factories which are no longer used. The city is even trying to tear down and clean up the property one of the old train yards is on that is no longer in use. They are planning on making the railroad company responsible for paying for the cleanup as well. Another important business in the area is grocery stores. There are two Safeways within 4 miles of each other and an Albertsons in that same area. It is never really a problem finding a store to get groceries from, the only problem is choosing which one to go to. I prefer Safeway but since Albertson's also carries virtually the same selection I don't mind it either. There are also several small churches which sit on some corners of city blocks throughout the neighborhood. Some of them have been converted into homes or apartments and others are still active. Many of them are 100 years old or more and very rustic and quaint. I often find myself wondering what is inside but I feel to awkward to go to one alone without even knowing anyone there. I don't know if any of my neighbors go to the church by my house either but perhaps I'll ask and go there one time if they do. I would like to see what a service is like and compare it to other churches I've been to. There are sometimes great community activities hosted by local churches such as picnics and volleyball events.
