My neighborhood is one of which may be seen as being typical to a large portion of the population. It is not a large area, nor is it incredibly small. Well, I suppose I should clarify. The specific neighborhood in which I live is quite small, but the surrounding areas are rather well populated and business oriented. I specifically live in a strictly suburban area. Rows of streets, interconnected with one another, lined with houses and living quarters. Small to medium sized yards in which it is not uncommon to find children or pets frolicking within fenced in areas, or even open areas in which they run a greater risk of running out into a street and incurring tragedy. It is a hilly area. I live near the top of an upward slope, so my house has a rather steep driveway, and can be taxing for one who is out of shape and coming to visit. It is not unusual to see a visitor walking into my front door, out of breath and complaining about the driveway and staircase that leads to the front door. Once out of my home, it is a short drive to the nearest main street. This street is populated with a few random stores and businesses. Nothing too extraordinary, though. There is an insurance office, a couple of auto shops, and two automotive parts stores that are located beside each other, for some reason. Two fast food chain restaurants are also nearby, but they usually aren’t incredibly busy. I am just outside the city limits of a much larger city, so most of the business occurs there. In one direction, there is that larger city. This is a typical medium-sized city. Lots of restaurants, a downtown area with locally owned businesses, bars, and eateries, and art displays that are put up by a downtown restoration organization. The main part of the city is chock full of chain restaurants and stores. There are a few shopping centers with the usual suspects. Target, Wal-Mart, and department stores of that type are all nearby. There is a traditional mall, but it has fallen into a dead zone, despite efforts to revitalize and make it relevant again. The mall does include a movie theater, but it is a very small scale movie theater. There are much better ones just a few miles outside of the city, so even the movie theater does not get a lot of attention. In the other direction from my home, lies another small town that only contains two restaurants and a grocery store. Beyond that, an even smaller town that has practically no businesses to speak of. It is mostly farmland and open land. The biggest claim to fame for this area is a cluster of factories that employ a large percentage of the population in that area. To sum it up, I lie right between a decent sized metropolitan area and a very rural area, so I pretty much have my choice of scenery when I want to get out of the house. 
