I live in a suburb area which has 33,000 population. My community had both single houses and town homes. Some of the houses face a small pond where there was a very beautiful fountain in the middle of the pond. Our community is managed by an Association. The Association has set up strict rules to ensure that our community was properly managed and that the residents here can enjoy a very safe and clean living environment. There were around 200 houses in our community. Our population is diversified where you can find Whites, Blacks, Hispanics and a little Asians. They were all very friendly and helpful neighbors. They have setting up on online group where the residents could join and share anything about our community or seek help from the neighbors. The families here are mostly young couples with little kids. So our community was very young and active. One of the best things the neighborhood I was living in offers a very good and promising school district to the children. The school district is ranked very high in our State. My neighborhood was conveniently located where you can find some strip malls with a number of grocery stores, a supermarket, a coffee shop, an auto repair shop, banks, a child care center, some fast food restaurants, a mattress shop, gas stations, and a cell phone company. There is also a recreational park inside my community with a basketball field, a football field and a playground for kids. The sidewalks are so neatly maintained that it was very safe to ride a bike on them. So there are lots of activities that the residents can pursue in our community. Many people loved walking a dog or jogging near the park. Not far away from my neighborhood, you can find two public libraries, two post offices and a cinema. I was very happy with all the amenities near my neighborhood. Besides, you can always saw police cars patrolling around. There is no violent crime ever happening in our neighborhood. So I feel very safe living in this neighborhood. The roads near our area are maintained in a very good condition and that communication to and from our area was very convenient. There is a big road nearby intersecting with several small roads, so travelling is very easy in our neighborhood. Many traffic lights and crosswalks were continuously being built to ensure safety of the drivers and the pedestrians. And there is no illegal parking in our area because any illegally parked cars were ticketed immediately. This measure is very important to maintaining a safe and neat environment for the residents. My neighborhood was really a very good place to live in and settle.
