My current neighborhood is very small. It really might shock quite a few people if they were to visit my area due to how small it is. It has a single store, two traffic lights, a small park, and a single school. My current neighborhood consists of one single store. In order to go shopping for groceries, you need to go to Tops. This Tops is literally half a mile away from where I lived. The Tops is a normal sized tops, but it does not have everything that a larger grocery store, such as Wegman's or Walmart would have. Often the produce is on the fair to under par side, for the items move off of the shelf rather slowly due to the low population. If you want to buy clothes, you cannot buy them easily in my neighborhood. You need to go several towns away, or drive forty five minutes to the nearest city. Thank god for Amazon Prime. There are also only two traffic lights in my neighborhood. There is one at the main intersection, that functions as a normal light for a two lane road. This is referred by the residents as "the light", for it is the only one that changes signal frequently. The second light is near the school. It is always blinking yellow, for caution. It can go red, in the case of emergencies, but in my thirty five years, I have only seen that happen twice. It isn't even thought of by most people as being a traffic light in the town. Also, there is a small park. This park is in the dead center of town. It has a gazebo in the center of it. This gazebo is often used by people just venturing through the park to sit and hang out in. The park also contains a museum. This museum is actually a mansion from a rich family that had since donated it. You can go in there and look at all of their antique items that they once had, and get an idea on how people lived back then. Also, there is a playground in the center. It really is not much, for it has a couple of swings, and a baby swing, and really nothing more to offer. In any case, you can usually find kids swinging on the swings in the park. Finally, there is also a small school that is in the area. This school is a kindergarten through senior school, all in one building. Each class, to give you an idea on the population, was between fifty and eighty kids per grade. The school had the majority of sports, but not all. You could play football, but not rugby or lacrosse. You could do wrestling, and you did not have to fight for a weight class, because there were not enough people to even fill all of the weight classes to begin with. Also, everyone knew everyone. You knew every single person by first and last name that were in high school, if you yourself were in high school. This made for great relationships.
