In my neighborhood there is a lot of stuff around. There’s a long road that goes down the middle of it and people walk down the sides sometimes even when it gets really hot. The biggest thing in my neighborhood is a really super huge apartment. It has like a million people that live in it with their kids and their dogs and their grandmas and stuff. People walk around with their families and like I mentioned they walk in the streets sometimes. You see a lot of people walking their kids to school with their backpacks and they have to walk in the street because there aren’t sidewalks. In my neighborhood there are also a lot of stores and shops. A lot of the shops are the common kind that I guess are like chain stores. There are a couple grocery stores. You can go to the Shoppers or you can go to the Save-a-lot but neither of them are really good. There’s also the Aldi’s but that’s farther away. There’s also the Giant but that’s a little more expensive and also you can’t really walk to it. There are some buses but they don’t come very often so it’s hard to go shopping unless you already bought a car. If you really need food but don’t have a lot of money you can also go to the Family Dollar even though that stuff isn’t really healthy for you. There are also a lot of places to get food that aren’t grocery stores. A lot of places you can buy food that is already made or hot but it’s more expensive and you might have to wait for it. There is a Little Caesar’s pizza right near my house in my neighborhood and they give you a lot of coupons through the mail. There’s also a carry-out called Joe’s that is next to the Family Dollar. It’s not that good but it is a cheap place to eat in my neighborhood. If you want to walk a little more you can also cross the big busy road and go to the Atomic Wings or some of the other places over there where you can get food. You can also walk down to the Popeye’s or the Subway. There aren’t that many houses in my neighborhood. Most people don’t have that much money so they only rent apartments. A lot of people live in apartments that are too expensive and they have too many people living in them. It’s cheaper in the long run to buy a house but because people don’t make that much money it’s hard for them to do that so they have to keep paying the landlords. It means it’s pretty hard to live around here in my neighborhood but I guess people make it work. It’s an okay place to live but you might also want to live somewhere more comfortable. I guess every place has good points and bad points. My neighborhood has both too. It has a lot of people in little apartments but it also smells like Popeye’s most of the time so that’s great. 
