My hood is amazing. Trees so tall you wouldn't be able to see the sky if it weren't for the blue poking through the green and brown. The pavement is unbroken, perfect, pure. Walking down the street, I can smell the air and detect the whiff of someone baking next door. It's gorgeous, fresh, untainted by the constraints of reality. Looking in the windows, you'll see what you would expect to see. You'll notice men and women, boys and girls, dogs and cats, tables and couches and TVs and everything else that belongs in a house. What won't you see? Aliens, Bigfoot, and overgrown plant life. Down the street from my apartment, you'll find the greatest grocery store ever constructed. A mile long, its entrance gapes open before you like a mouth unable to close, teeth bared and tongue flapping. The people mill about, pushing their carts, wandering here and there, to and fro, grabbing items from each shelf and dropping them unceremoniously in the cart below. Can you blame them for not calorie watching? Can you blame them for not checking labels? Walk back outside and wander back down the street towards my apartment. You'll pass a fire station that sits unwavering, cars parked out back, waiting for their owners to finish saving lives and come drive them back home. The sounds of sirens fill the air every so often as the doors rattle open, ushering a life saving truck out to the street and off towards their fiery destination. Cross the street here and you'll find a gas station. This gas station has stood here for years, untouched by time as you can see the old grime and decor still stands. Keep walking, back down the paved road, until you reach the treeline once more. Here, you'll turn down the street and see my home, waving at you like a long lost friend. If you walk down the street, you'll see my neighbors. All of them. Each and every one of them, outside on the doorstep, waving at you as you walk. Creepy isn't it? Don't worry though. They don't bite. They're just the friendliest people I've ever met. Soon enough, you'll know them all very well. There's a part about halfway down the street. Nothing too big, but not too small either. Like Goldilocks said, it's just right. Swingset mixed in with a slide and jungle gym. Nearby, a tennis court and pool sits for the neighborhood. On any given summer day, you'll see these places full of people exercising and having fun with their friends and families. It's a beautiful sight to see. If you come at night, you'll have a beautiful view of the stars in the middle of the park. Stare up at the sky and remember who you are. Look back down and see the bright lights from the porches through the neighborhood. If you walk by any of these lights, the household inhabitants will graciously welcome you into their spacious homes and feed you til you burst. Like I said, these people are the friendliest neighbors you'll ever meet. You may never want to leave this neighborhood. Trust me, it's life changing.
