My neighborhood is a suburban type of neighborhood that has lots of different kinds of people living there. The houses are big, some are small, and some of them have swimming pools and other features that make them unique. Neighbors walk their dogs along the sidewalk all the time and they greet each other in friendly ways. There are lots of places where people can walk or ride their bike, including parks and a school that is near a recreational park where many people go regularly. Living in this neighborhood means that you’re never far from something to do either by yourself or with someone else. There are a few bus stops around so that even those who can’t drive can get around pretty easily. I used to ride the bus everywhere I went when I was younger up until just a few years ago when I started to drive my own car around town. I’ve never felt unsafe in my neighborhood, even when there were people living across the street who would make a lot of noise and drive their cars up and down the street far too fast. That’s because this neighborhood is home to a lot of different kinds of people, like older people and those with kids. Everyone’s kids go to the elementary school that’s right up around the corner, and you can see them walking around during the school year before and after school. The school used to have swings before they took them out because someone got hurt and their parents complained to the school district. The other parts around the area do have swings, though. One of the other parks is right between two cul-de-sacs and is kept clean and neat. That’s what makes the neighborhood good for taking walks, especially if you have kids who like to play on playground equipment. It’s also pretty close to a couple of different grocery stores along with some restaurants and other businesses like a hair salon and dry cleaners. It’s a good place to grow up in when you don’t drive or have a lot of money to spend because you can just walk up to the store and buy something cheap, which is something me and my friend did all the time growing up. When my family moved in several years ago, the streets didn’t even have sidewalks. But not long after that, the city tore up the streets and replaced the gravel with sidewalks and made the streets much cleaner and easier to walk around on. While I thought the gravel walkways looked kind of cool, they made it harder to get around, especially with a bike. Everyone is pretty nice and friendly in the neighborhood, so there aren’t any houses you have to look out for to avoid getting yelled at or something like some neighborhoods have. Overall it’s a nice place to live and raise a family in my neighborhood.
