My neighborhood is diverse..and I am curious as to what your brain perceives when you read the word diverse. Is it different races? Different housing styles? It's all of it. Everything you've thought of and more. My neighborhood has every single style of ethnic food your brain could fathom. My neighborhood has every single style of housing you could imagine. My neighborhood has every single different race, age, socio-economic status, and more. When I say diverse, I truly mean it, love it, and embrace it. Take a walk with me. As we leave my house, I say hello to my neighbor, and elderly African-American woman with a small dog named Jax. Walking down the sidewalk, I say hello to my young caucasian neighbor, and give a head nod to my middle aged Asian neighbor having a cigarette by their car. Once I hit the main road, I can see a Spanish help and job placement center across the street, an Indian restaurant, a brew pub, a tobacco store, and a horse & tack shop. If I go to the left, I'll go to the largest international supermarket in the state. If I go to the right, I'll hit your typical suburban shops - Costco, Target, Wal Mart, etc. If I make two rights, I'll be in the residential part of town. Houses range from large and extremely well kept, with prices in the millions, to extremely run down and small, selling for under $100,000. These homes can be on the same street. It's bizarre! If I come out of this neighborhood and explore surrounding neighborhoods, they're all like this! While my city has pockets of high end and low end neighborhoods, the majority of the city has neighborhoods that are just like mine: diverse, eclectic, and like home. The people of my apartments, neighborhood, my city, and my state are all unique and diverse. While things seem so different, and every personal experience in my neighborhood may vary, I know that no matter where I go, diversity and uniqueness will be a comfort zone for me. I embrace the differences and all of the things we each bring to the table. Whether it's the Korean couple that owns the local corner store that stocks special items just for me, or the young Mexican family that works at the local carniceria, each different background is what makes up the fabric of my neighborhood and makes me feel welcome. This is the only neighborhood I've lived in where I feel like I have the whole world at my fingertips. While I will miss my neighborhood, my home, when I'm away at college, I know that it will be here waiting for me. And as they say, absence makes the heart grow fonder, and I know I will grow even fonder of my one, my only, neighborhood. Thank you for reading about my neighborhood. I hope you felt the love I feel for it.
