My neighborhood is two streets in the country. Our streets are like a tiny suburb, but with bigger yards. Instead of being surrounded by more suburbs, there is only a swamp and some farms. There are a lot of cottonwood trees and pine trees in the area. The cottonwoods were already here, before the land was sold for housing. The pine trees were planted on the property lines. Some of us have backyard access to a lake, but only those people are allowed to use the lake without permission. Others have streams and ponds in their yards. Our two streets are paved, and form a loop in the shape of a 'p'. That is, there is only one entrance and exit to the main road, which is a dirt road. A sign at this intersection says that our suburb is "Wandering Hills Estates", but nobody here calls it that. There are no shops here. It is twenty minutes away from the nearest supermarket, but we can also get food from two farm stands, which are closer. There is also a gas station about ten minutes away, and a general store a little further. Technically our neighborhood belongs to one particular city, but it is slightly faster for us to get to a different village. That might just be because of a higher speed limit on the roads leading there. The people here are mostly young families, and retired couples who have lived here since they were young families themselves. Aside from the retirees, we're all commuters. Most of us commute to a big city (further away than the small city we technically belong to). Several of our neighbors work at the hospital there. Most people in the neighborhood are affluent, and their houses are very big. Some of us a lower-middle class and working class, but I don't think anybody here is struggling, or a member of the "working poor". There is a lot of wildlife here. We see deer in the mornings and evenings, possums at night, and a lot of birds during the day. Less often, we see groundhogs and rabbits A family of cranes often venture out of the swamp onto the yards bordering it. They've lived here for almost two years, and it has been fun to watch their family develop. There is a local family of crows, but nobody can get close to them. Not being city crows, they distrust humans. Most of the families here have a couple of pets. A few of us share responsibility for feeding a local stray cat. At least, we think she's a stray, but she might be a clever indoor-outdoor cat who has worked out that she will get more food if she pretends not to have a home. Even though the people with lake access get protective about their property, most of the rest of us are understanding if a neighbor's dog walks through our yard.
