A lot of people nowadays seem to move around a lot in their lives. Not me. I’ve lived in two different places my whole life, and even then it doesn’t really count because I just moved from one apartment to another house maybe three blocks away. Well, I also lived with my grandparents some, but that was just for a little while so I don’t count it for much. Anyway, all that’s to say that I’ve been living in the place I’m about to tell you about for a long time. My town and neighborhood was definitely pretty small, and we were the only kids we knew in the area because we were homeschooled. It’s typical southern manners — all sweet and nice and “would you like a cookie?” in front of you, sure to gossip about how “dirty and unladylike” you were when they thought you’d gone. As for the house itself, we moved in when I was five. My house is a split level, with one floor with all the basic rooms like kitchen, living room, and dining room, and then when you go upstairs you find yourself the three bedrooms and two bathrooms. There’s also the linen closet, but we don’t use that as much any more. The house is on a cul-de-sac, so we know our neighbors pretty well. We’re one house away from the road, and then there are six other houses on the block. As kids, we explored the entire neighborhood pretty freely. There’s a small forest land across the street from us and we spent time in there when other people came to visit, but when we were just by ourselves we mostly played in the no man’s land behind our house. It was a pretty large field and had a creek, which was basically Disney world for a couple of rambunctious kids. But we didn’t spend all our time around home. If you left our cul-de-sac and crossed the main road, the walking park was right there. We spent many a summer dashing across the road and climbing up the dirt hills to get into the park, and then would race along the paths, play frisbee, or drop Pooh sticks. Another nice thing about our neighborhood is that despite having lots of room to roam unattended, we were also walking distance to downtown. Every Wednesday during the summer, our Dad would take us for a walk down the sidewalks to the downtown library, where we’d pile up stacks of books and shove them into his backpack for the journey home. If we were lucky, we’d stop by the bread store or ice cream shop on the way back for a snack. The second half of the walking park was on the opposite side of the no man’s land field, so we’d usually wrap around that way on the walk home instead of taking the main roads. There was a wild pear tree where the park met the sidewalk, and sometimes we’d pick some fruit from it. They were never all that good, but it was the novelty of it we liked.
