I want to tell you about my neighborhood. It's a nice place, even though some people don't think so. They call it The War Zone. What a funny name, huh? I wouldn't call it that. Actually, that name, "The War Zone," comes from a funny fact of history. After the Vietnam War, South Vietnamese refugees settled there. There was never any kind of war there, no sir. Just a lot of unfortunate people on the wrong side of history. But they still call it the War Zone. By the way, it's basically the neighborhoods around Louisiana and Central in the older part of Albuquerque. There are still lots of Vietnamese immigrants and other South Asians there. Lots of other kinds of people's, too. It's a very diverse area. Many Hispanics and Native Americans, too. As you might imagine, we have many kinds of ethnic restaurants, too. Good eating. Another reason the name, "The War Zone," has stuck, is that it's a fairly high crime area. Lots of homeless, addicts, and prostitutes hang out along Central Avenue in the neighborhood. That probably sounds awful if you've never been there. But it's not actually that bad. There is a lot of drama and petty crime, and some trash and other mess. But where I live, about two blocks off central, we never have any serious problems. I mean, I've never had anything stolen or worse, not even when I've gotten expensive Amazon shipments left in my yard by UPS or the USPS. My biggest annoyance is my neighbor's loud rooster. The homes in my neighborhood are smaller and older. Most were built in the 50s and 60s for lower middle class people. There are a few even older traditional adobe homes. That's what kind my apartment is. Are you familiar with adobe homes? Basically, they are what you think of when you think "New Mexico." They are thick, square, flat-roomed homes, usually tan in color. In the old days, they were made of adobe bricks: clay-heavy mud mixed grass for strength, like rebar in concrete. The outside was stuccoed with the same stuff, plus a little extra sand in the mix. The roof and floor joists were large, pinon pine logs, the ends sticking out of the side of the house. Parts of my house are actual old adobe brick. The newer parts of the house are wood stud construction, but made to look like adobe. You can tell which is which by the thickness of the walls. The newer walls are about 8"-10" thick, like most modern houses. But the old walls are almost 2' thick. My house' exterior, like most adobe houses these days, traditional and modern reproduction, is stuccoed with a synthetic stucco, which is longer lasting and more weatherproof. But it still keeps the old aesthetic. Believe it or not, most houses in my neighborhood have grass and trees in their small yards. Some don't. People xeriscape them with stones and cacti. I prefer the small houses of my neighborhood. By small, I mean up to 1200 sq ft. I don't know why modern neighborhoods make such big houses. Who needs them?
