My neighborhood has an open, fluid layout. There are approximately 15 homes in my neighborhood. It is a tight knit community comprised of mostly families inhabiting the homes within it. My neighborhood is in the outskirts of a suburban area and a few blocks from a main highway. Near my neighborhood, there are several stores: Wal-Mart, Meijer, and the Dollar Store. All of these stores are within walking distance. There are also several gas stations in my neighborhood. My neighborhood is a small neighborhood. It stands alone. It is not a part of a subdivision and there are no other neighborhoods near it. All of the homes in my neighborhood are made of brick, siding, or a combination of the two. The lawns of the homes are very well maintained, but not due to any sort of ordinance or requirement. The people of my neighborhood like to take good care of their homes. One person that lives in my neighborhood is Joseph Pointer. He has lived there since he was a child. He told me he bought the home from his parents once they got older. He lives with his wife and their small dog. Sometimes the dog gets out. The people who live in my neighborhood know to look out for the dog. Despite there not being lots of houses in my neighborhood, there are lots of kids that live there. You will often find kids playing basketball or stick hockey in the street or playing tag in someone’s yard. Because of this, the people who live in our neighborhood know to drive really slow onto the street, so as not to hit someone. My neighborhood is about 5 blocks away from two schools- a junior high school and an elementary school. Every morning at around 6:00 A.M. the school bus comes to the end of the street to pick up the kids in my neighborhood for school. Only one home on my street has a pool in their backyard. This is Ms. Klasky’s pool. Every summer, she has a block party where she invites everyone in the neighborhood over. The neighborhood men barbeque chicken and burgers. The kids like to swim in the pool and play with Ms. Klasky’s dogs. We play music and games, like corn hole. It is nice to get to know each other as neighbors. Ms. Klasky is elderly and does not use her pool often. I think she keeps it open for the block party. She likes having the company and I do not blame her. We all enjoy the pool, as well. Our neighborhood is usually quiet, even though it is close to the highway. We all try to watch out for each other. A year or so ago, we had someone come and take things from multiple vehicles in the neighborhood. We started a small neighborhood watch program. We all keep our vehicles locked now and our porch lights on. Even though this happened, I would say my neighborhood is a very safe place to live. 
