The applicant’s neighborhood is a typical Midwestern small town. In fact, it is a very small town. For the purpose of this writing, the town is essentially the “neighborhood”. Having said that, the town is too small to even have any kind of major industry or shopping centers. The center of main street has a post office, a computer repair store, a water department office and meeting place for town meetings. It also has the remnants of a defunct grain elevation and grain supply store. At the very end on main street, approaching a major highway, there is a convenience store and the ever-present liquor store. One will also find a bank and a newly added Dollar General store that has been the talk of the town for weeks. The people in this town are typical Midwesterners in that they keep to themselves and are, one the most part, polite and helpful. Most are of the conservative variety with a few renegades placed here and there. Some are religious while others are not. Most are Christians ranging from devout to those that only pay it lip service. It would be safe to say that religion isn’t a huge factor in life to most although there are two churches in the town. Ages in the town vary more or less as any town would with a few elderly couples and the very young to the larger portion of people in the 25 to 45-year-old range. The total population is around 1,500 people. The homes in the neighborhood vary in size, worth and quality greatly. The are not segregated into “poor” vs. “rich” categories but are rather vey intermixed. One will find a very expensive home next to a very modest home frequently. There doesn’t seem to be caste system in the neighborhood as everyone seems to live where they bought a lot and everyone seems to get along find like this. There are other newer building developments on the edges of town that are pretty homogeneous in that they are all homes that were built at the same time and are all in about the same worth range. Again, on the most part, the housing in the town is sporadic in the types of home that are placed together. The major feature of the town is the airport on the north end of town. People from all over fly into the airport and have dinner at the restaurant there. The restaurant, while not exactly “five star”, is quite nice and is decorated with all kinds of aircraft memorabilia. One could say that it is something of a museum. There are flying clubs that celebrate vintage aircraft that fly in regularly. Many are biplanes that one can hear lumber along like they did in the 20’s or 30’s. The other side of the airport is very modern with business jets with the occasional helicopter. All-in-all my neighborhood or town is a good sampling of America. It has all races and economic types represented. While it isn’t urban by any means, it does have a full range of facilities that range from hi-tech to those of a bygone era. 
