I live in a neighborhood that's just not very nice. There are a lot of criminals and crime is much more common than when I lived in other places. The area I live in is just outside of downtown and within walking distance. There are lots of houses on each street and the houses are built very close together. The houses are all pretty old and likely built in the early 1900s. The yards are small. There are alleys that run in between all of the streets and most people have garages that are in the alley. Most of them have paint peeling and look sort of rundown. There are even a couple of vacant condemned houses too! There are a lot of churches in the neighborhood too. The closest church is Catholic and has mass in English and Spanish. They also have a school in it that kids attend. There are two corner stores within a couple of blocks away from my home. They are both tobacco stores and shady people hang out outside of them. A little farther away, there is a strip mall with different kinds of stores. There is a grocery store, post office, dollar store, auto parts store, restaurant, and another tobacco store. There are a bunch of other restaurants in the area too. There's a lot of empty space in the mall too where businesses have moved out of. They are also doing a lot of building and construction in the area, mostly commercial and business stuff. They sell other stuff too like candy and soda. The roads in the neighborhood are not in good shape and have tons of potholes everywhere. In the summer time, there is a lot of construction to the roads that gets done. There can be a lot of closed roads and detours that can make it hard to navigate around the neighborhood. There are a few parks in the area that are good for kids because they have playgrounds. There is one large park that overlooks downtown and is quite beautiful but people always litter and trash it. There are sidewalks and trails to walk on and many bus stops around. Public transportation is used by lots of people and is convenient here. 
