I never appreciated my neighborhood until I left it. I didn’t realize, growing up, that what I had was special. Not perfect, by any means, but special and beautiful. It’s strengths and weaknesses go hand-in-hand. Some kids grow up in a lively neighborhood, full of other kids to play with. I didn’t. But what my neighborhood lacked in friends, was well made up for in the sounds, sights, and smells of Up North nature. On one side of my house is a dramatic view over the bluff of Lake Superior. In the early morning, pinks, oranges, and yellows light up the sky and reflect on the lake as the sun comes up. A little later, the lake sparkles brightly reflecting the bright sun. Mid-day, the water is pure blue, and boats pass by. As dusk arrives, the water stills, turning a deep blue-purple. At night, you can see lights and fires across the water to the peninsula. Our view of the water is framed by trees, which are in turn coated in snow, haloed in light green early spring leaves, or bursting into brilliant oranges and reds and browns in fall. On the other side of the house are the gardens that my parents have cultivated over the last 35 years. Constantly shifting and shaping at the hands of my parents’ labor (and occasionally mine), the gardens have grown up with me. The yard is large and hilly, and I spent my childhood in the ‘secret garden’ down the hill, ‘dad’s garden’ which was full of grasses, the vegetable plot that my mom planted every year, and the grassy areas where I played dress up and paraded around. The house rests at the end of a cul-de-sac up a hill on a rural backroad. Some days, only the mailman’s car would reach our house. So many evenings were spent in the paved turnaround, biking in circles, throwing the tennis ball for my dog, or playing catch. Across the street was a steep bank, so we faced no other houses. The bank was full of maples perfect for climbing. Up the hill was an orchard, which I furtively explored, aware that I was trespassing, often imagining that an evil farmer would come to chase me away from his fruits. The bank was home to many wild turkeys, who nested in the trees (they can’t really fly so they jumped from the top of the hill to land in a tree below). I often found turkey eggs in the spring from which turkey chicks had hatched. As an only child with no nearby friends, this neighborhood was my companion. I spent many hours outside by myself in exploration of it. But its specialness didn’t sink in until I left it, discovering that many other yards are small and tame, butting up next to other yards. I’ve moved away, but I always ache for sights of big water.
