"Tia, wake up! There's a horse in the front yard!" I didn't even bother to pull my head out from under my pillow. This was the third time so far this month the neighbor's horse had wandered into my front yard and trampled all over my dandelions. Move out to the country, they say. It's beautiful! It's peaceful! "They" are horrible, awful people who should have very bad things happen to them. Yes, the country is beautiful. It's also expensive. There are exactly two grocery stores. The nearest Walmart is over 40 minutes away. Literally nothing delivers - the Pizza Hut is carry out only. People are nosy and rude. My landlord claims that service animals aren't a real thing, just some liberal internet Hollywood fad, but he'll pray for me so I won't think I need one. I miss the ghetto. It was home. It looked ugly to outsiders, but to those of us that lived there, we saw the true potential it possessed. The kids running up and down the streets, chasing each other on bikes and shopping carts. The head nod of solidarity. That tantalizing smell of mofongo cooking that would waft out of Carrie's mam's windows every Tuesday afternoon for the bridge game. Mister Jack's corner store, where everyone met up to gossip and wait for the bus. It might not look aesthetically pleasing, with the peeling paint and cars up on blocks and bars on windows, but the insides were pretty. Pretty is, isn't always as pretty does, because if that were true then the ugly-acting people that I call neighbors would be the ones with patchy lawns of dead grass, rocks, and sand, while my former neighbors would be here, running around in the forest and fishing in the river. There must be a billion stars that come out here every night, one for every little kid that ever wished to ever make it out someday. I've never seen anyone here look up at night at gaze at the wonderment, and I have to wonder at their stupidity. My deck is the one positive thing about this place. Some nights I spend all night outside, looking at the stars. I'll take a bottle of sangria out, and turn on some Miles Davis, and just stare at the sky all night. In the city there's so much light pollution that it just isn't possible to stargaze. Not to mention, there's the problem of houses and buildings and trees being everywhere, so you just can't maneuver yourself into a good position to look at Venus. The shopping here is lackluster, too. There aren't any bookstores. My used bookstore back in the city was the same one that my grandfather first took me to when I was three years old, and I still have that book. Having to do all my shopping online is difficult, and expensive. Still, I have my reasons for needing to be here for now, so I'm going to work on making the country a little more like the ghetto.
