There are lots of trees where I live. I have a forest in my back yard which is nice. Alot of people have gardens here. You can also plant a garden where there is a empty lot so that is really cool. I have a garden with tomatoes, beans and flowers. I like to share with people in my neighborhood because there are alot of old people that live here and they don't always have the time or money to go to the store. There are alot of families here too. There are alot of little kids but most of them live with their grandparents. I like to take walks with my dog because there is always someone to say hi to or to talk to. On the weekends alot of people cut their grass in the summer or plant flowers. We like to share seeds with each other because that way we keep our houses looking nice. There is a park. There are lots of dogs. There are houses but they are small and I don't like that. I wish I lived in a bigger house. There are 3 parks. One has a water thing that we go to and get sprayed. I do like that alot. There are 2 parks that just have playground stuff. I take my son there all the time. There are not that many places to eat here. There is 1 pizza place which is good. They have New Jersey style pizza and I used to live in New Jersey so I like that. There is also a McDonalds, which is always crowded. Also I feel sick after I eat McDonalds so I dont go very often. There is no grocey store here but 1 town over there is a store so I have to ride the bus to get there. that is not fun because then I have to carry all my stuff on the bus. I wish we have a grocery here. We used to have one but it closed because it caught on fire one summer day. It snows here in the winter. That makes it really hard to get to store because then I have to walk in the snow. I used to like the snow when I was a kid buti dont anymore. we dont have two many of the truck that clear the snow because its not important to anyone i guess but i really like to play in the snow sometimes. There is no scjool when it snows so we are all bored. There is only oneschool here for each kind of school. Like one for little kids and one for middle school and one for the high school wich is nice because you know everyone but sucks because if you dont get along with anyone then you are stufck with them for all of school. I really didnt like school so I didnt go all the time.
