The neighborhood that I live in is quite city like with a repertoire of a diverse environment and people. I will start with the houses. Many of the houses range from apartments and town houses to large houses and mansions suited for soldiers. They are quite diverse in appearance where some are quite modern with modern aesthetics and technology combined within, and there are some houses that are quite outdated. What is interesting about the current production of the houses is that a new stadium is being built around here so many of them are receiving hasty upgrades with prices increasing tenfold. There has been much demand for upkeep as of lately and some houses that have existed for decades or nearly a century old are receiving some revolutionary upgrades. Some are even being demolished completely for the reconstruction of an entirely new house. There are also many apartments and complexes being built for more younger demographics and a lot of homes built for medical patients and senior citizens. Answering about the population and people it is quite diverse in ethnicity and gender. I see many African Americans, those of Hispanic descent, Caucasians, and Asians that are quite integrated within this area. I see a variety of ages intertwined within the community young and old. The people are quite nice and typically like to be to themselves which is great when one likes their privacy. There aren't many big stores within the neighborhood like a Whole Foods or Walmart. Many of the stores are quite local and ran by the members of the community that typically have the items I enjoy. There is a plethora of “liquor stores” that exist on various corners that are ran by nice people. My dad frequents here and tends to buy me unique items I do not typically see at the grocery store which is something I do not mind. There aren’t many shopping centers such as dress stores and malls which is somewhat of a disappointment. To get to these areas, one typically has to drive at a farther distance. The park is quite lovely and lively where many families like to attend usually with their pets. There are concerts, food vendors, sports, and exercises classes that are great for anyone. The city also feels very safe. The police department and the court house are close in location making crime a rare occurrence, and if they do occur they come within second. A while back there was a disturbance in the neighborhood of rowdy teenagers and my mother called. I could not believe how fast they arrived to mediate the situation. If there is a downside to the living in this neighborhood it would be the school. The school district does not have the best reputation so the children starting from elementary school towards the end of high school are not receving as an effective education as they should be making them not as prepared to enter the college environment or workforce as other nearby districts.
