My neighborhood is about as typical as an American suburb can get, which is actually quite wonderful when it comes to appreciating history as the traditional regions of my neighborhood represent decades of what it means to be an American. For starters, I live right next to the lake, so the grass is green on one side and the other is a cool blue with a nice breeze. The houses most interestingly, are largely falling apart, many of them are well over a hundred years old and have stood the test of time, it leads to an interesting dynamic as the families with money have been able to make repairs or modernize their homes, whereas many side streets are sitting on rentals with porches and exteriors showing a lot of age, the insides are no different of course, but in the next few decades I imagine a lot of these houses will be forced to be renovated completely if left to be neglected for much longer. The people are varied, it’s a very diverse area being right next to Cleveland so there are many ethnicities and cultures about. Sometimes outsiders often crudely joke that the city is nothing but churches and gay bars, but the city is full of small restaurants and other locally owned businesses as well. Overall, people are happy here, many lead simple lives and even though there is a socioeconomic divide from one section of the city to another, you can see equality and prosperity here. Many of the restaurants here for example are successful across some of the most common ethnicities. Chinese, Indian, Mexican, Greek, Italian, they all thrive in this city. One of the best highlights of the city is its food for sure, but it’s nice to see small businesses such as the local movie theater compete with more commercial chains because the people here understand the importance of small business. Every four months there is a festival in the community center with hundreds of people coming out and showcasing their work and people buying it as well. Art, film, and food creations are abundant at these festivals and it’s nice to see all parts of the community come together every few months to represent and support the best of the best in the city. Lastly, the parks of my city are magnificent. There’s the public parks scattered about across the city, many with skate parks, basketball, and tennis courts. But on one side of the city it actually goes into a massive valley where people cycle, fish, go out to the lake, and explore. It’s a truly beautiful area with loads of wildlife and all the tranquility anyone could ever hope for from such a busy and eventful city. I’d argue my city is the best balance of everything. Nature, events, food, people, and prosperity. That’s what makes my city so iconic as a traditional American city, it stands for the values that we all adhere to and showcases them at their best locally. I couldn’t wish for a better city to live in or to be a member of. 
