My neighborhood growing up was in a poor side of town. My parents frequently had little money and could only afford an undesirable place that was far away from anything of interest. Since my parents also had little money, they were unable to move out of the city that they grew up in (which had poor non-military job prospects and they never ended up joining the military due to personal issues), which compounded the issue of being in a poor neighborhood. Gang violence was rampant in this area, as one would not feel safe walking around at night with many gangbangers willing to take one’s life if they noticed you had something valuable (such as a pair of Air Jordan brand sneakers) or even if you looked at them funny. There was no convenient form of public transportation nearby except for a city bus that led to the local shipyard, which is where people who were unable to leave the city to go somewhere else but did not have significant legal issues ended up working to try to make ends meet. There were no grocery stores nearby, making this area a food desert. Food deserts are especially difficult on children growing up, as they are unable to get the proper nutrients that a developing body need. This leads to the children performing worse in school, which continues the cycle of poverty that is difficult to break out of once a generation enters this cycle. The only store nearby was a 7-11 gas station, which was also a frequent hotspot for crime. When the vicinity was safe, the store’s major sales (besides gas) were overpriced goods that one would find cheaper at a more traditional grocery store, cigarettes, and beer. Families attempting to provide for their children had little choice but to purchase the vastly more expensive items at the 7-11, as they were unable to make the trip to the grocery stores further away. The nearest grocery store to my neighborhood growing up was at least 2 miles away, which compounded with the neighborhood being unsafe, one would be foolish to attempt to carry groceries that distance on foot. The cigarettes and beer are the vice of the poor, and the 7-11 corporation (and other corporations, but there was only a 7-11 in my neighborhood) wants to get every penny of this. Poor individuals are more stressed out about their life situation compared to other individuals, as money increasingly gives one the ability to have more freedom (as shown earlier in the grocery and job example) until one reaches a certain point where for most people, X amount of money will not provide significantly more freedom (this amount is about $100,000 per year). Nicotine reduces stress, and alcohol allows one to get drunk and forget about the problems that eat away at one’s mind, which are perfect (albeit very expensive and unhealthy) vices that poor people are more likely to begin at a young age and become addicted, limiting the little spending money that these individuals do have in order to have an attempt to make a better life for themselves.
