My neighborhood is not somewhere the middle-class students would feel safe walking around at night. I walk home at night every day after work. I had a customer at work who commented that it wasn’t a very good neighborhood. Well, it took everything I had not to reply “You should see where I live!” A cab driver was shot just down the street from my residence. The shooter didn’t even steal his cab or take any money – just shot him and ran. My neighbor is always trying to sell her drugs. A handful of skinheads are always buying more meth. Almost all the cars get broken into. Somebody had been broken into 3 times before they finally moved. Lucky for me, I don't own a car. I live within walking distance - literally within SIGHT - of a laundromat. Ironic, since my unit has a washer dryer it's the only place I've ever lived where this serves no purpose. I would've been very happy to have this at any other location I've lived. There's a grocery store across the street. Convenient for when we run out of something. Though annoying at the same time since I'm always running across the street to get something. It’s also got a mini mall attached to it, though the other stores there are always getting replaced with some new business. They’ve all changed hands at least thrice since I’ve lived here. Except for Chuck E. Cheese. Nobody messes with him. The whole area is known as the Dobson district, after a nearby major street named Dobson. There’s a really terrible mall that never seems to have more than half its stores occupied. Yet it has 5 jewelry stores. How they haven’t all been robbed, I’ll never know. They must have the world’s greatest security service. But it’s even more impressive that they find enough customers in this area to actually be profitable. I know no one who lives near me can afford any of those stores. Perhaps rich people drive in from the wealthy district hidden behind the bank. There’s a big skyscraper -the only skyscraper within 10 miles, so it stands out – with the Bank of America logo on it. It hides the back road which leads to an oddly close wealthy district. That Skyscraper isn’t doing any better than the mall - wander around inside and you’ll see very few things stay open there long. I think at one point the 4th floor was entirely vacant. Near the skyscraper and the terrible mall is an even more terrible mini-mall. It used to have a circuit city. Once it closed, that whole mini-mall closed, save for a really lousy McDonalds out front in the parking lot. That whole mini-mall has been “SPACE FOR LEASE” for several years. Yep, that’s where I live. Wondering why I would ever live here? Well for some unknown reason this is where the lowest rents in town are. 
