I live in a neighborhood that is one full of houses, apartments, and people. I live in an apartment with my husband and son. I like living there because there are lots of people. I live in an apartment building that is old but well maintained. I live in a two bedroom apartment with my family. I have a cat that lives with us and two guinea pigs, also. I have a large living room with a large window that slides out into our balcony. I live in a neighborhood that is full of people. I live next door to a couple that is from India. I listen to their conversations in Hindi and I can smell their strong cooking all the way from my apartment. I can hear their friends come over and laugh, laugh, laugh. I have a neighbor upstairs who likes to smoke. I can hear him stomp around until he out on his balcony. I can see the burnt up butts drop down, down, down into my flowerpots and balcony chairs. I can smell the rancid odor through my open windows. I have seen my downstairs neighbors are nice. I park next to their old red truck and see that it is for sale. I live in an apartment building that is just up the street from a major shopping road. I shop at the Kroger grocery store, full of food and household goods at decent prices. I own a membership card and enjoy the benefits that come from shopping there. I eat at the local college pizza place. I like to eat their thick, doughy pizza crust filled with cheese and topping. I eat their tasty boneless buffalo wings with a heavy side of ranch. I take my son to the daycare that is on that major road. I drop him off each morning with a pack full of food, a thick blanket for naptime, and countless kisses until he squirms away. I pick him up each evening and feel his sleepy head rest against my shoulder as I take him to the car. I take my car through the quick carwash and see the lights reflecting onto my son’s sleepy face. I take my son to the local park in my neighborhood. I take his hand as he toddles along the paved trails that go deep, deep, deep into the wooded area. I point out the different trees, leaves, and sticks that cross along the path. I swerve out of the way as runners and bicyclists pass us along the trails. I enjoy his sense of wonder at all in the world. I take him to the playground area and help him up the long slide. I catch him as he comes down and makes sure that he landed safely. I pack him up in the car and take him home for a hearty dinner and bedtime. I live in a neighborhood that encompasses all that I need in my life. I can get anything I need and I can enjoy the littler moments within my neighborhood.
