My neighborhood is very rural, so if you're used to the city or suburbs it might be a little hard to picture. I was like you once, I grew up in the suburbs of metropolitan area and never really knew what living far away from cities and stores was like. Now, I've been in my city for a little over five years and I'm still not used to the long 25 minute drive to the nearest town with stores and fast food. There's about 800 or people in our town. We're a tourist trap during the summer because of the lake we're near. Most of the streets leading to houses are dirt/gravel roads. There's one gas station, local diner, bank and post office. The people are generally friendly and generally religious to some extent too. Living in a small rural town is so much different than what my growing up experience was. Coming to my town you'd be surprised how small it is. You can get to the "city" and drive through the heart of in in a few minutes. From the time you hit the city, you see a few churches, a fire station, then housing, a few inns close to the lake and then the lake itself. Congrats, in about 3-5 minutes you've driven through all of my city. It's that small. If you do decide to explore some of the side streets you'll find a vary degree of houses, trailers, etc. You'll also find the terrain on most streets to be hilly and rock-filled since not all the streets are paved here yet. Most people will give you a nod or a wave if they see you and like i said above are generally pretty friendly. During the summer months there's a lot more foot traffic and driving, because there's a lake that's heavily used. But the surrounding area doesn't have a lot in the way of attractions, so people come boating, but then have to drive elsewhere to do other things. For the most part, anyone I've met coming into boat or something have been friendly as well. We only have one internet provider, but they're mostly fair, have good service and surprisingly we have fiber out here. The electricity is from a bigger company as well and the water/trash collection are run locally. If you can get your mortgage paid, the bills living out here are pretty manageable, but you'll have to get used to a ton of travel time to do things. Also it's pretty cold in the winter and unbearably hot in the summer. Like I mentioned above the nearest bigger city is about half and hour away and the nearest big city is about 45-50 minutes away. So you get used to living more local, only going out when you need to and just taking in the scenery when you do venture out to do things as well. That's what it's like living in my neighborhood that's also my city.
