This place is like nowhere I have ever lived before. The small, capital city on the waterfront is extremely diverse, both in people and in its structures, and that is what I don't like about it. I'd like everything to be the same, just like the cookie-cutter neighborhoods that I've always lived in before. I'd rather see people driving almost the same, bubbly-looking car or overbearing SUV, and I'd much rather see every house looking exactly the same, too. The colors some people choose for their houses are insane - what were they thinking? It's just way too bright and cheery. I'd be mad if I had to look out my window and see that every day. This thing where no two houses are exactly the same, the overflowing of gardens, individuality, "personal expression", and all the uniqueness just isn't cute and quaint and charming, no matter what anyone else says. I don't want to see the Puget Sound out of my back window, or all of the boats and ships gliding in the water. I don't know why everyone says its breathtaking. It just reminds me that I'm not rich enough to own one of those boats. The salty fresh air does me no good, and neither does seeing all of the sea life - the otters, seals, birds - if you've seen one, you've seen them all, am I right? I don't want to walk a block to the lake that sits directly below the majestic capital buildings, where everyone walks their dogs, and one guy even walks a piglet. They all just do it for attention, and I don't like animals or small talk anyway. All the people smile at you and nod hello, but I just avoid eye contact and pretend I don't see them. I also don't want to hike through the man-made trails with wooden bridges and glimpses of the ocean, while slowly climbing through a forest of evergreens. It's just too much for my mind to take, it makes me dizzy, and plus, it's tiring. Everyone wants to stop and take pictures and dilly dally at the lookout points, but I think that's a waste of time. I'm always a bit sore the next day from all of the exercise, and that really puts me in a bad mood. I can't stand the fact that you can find any store (sometimes TWO of 'em) within 15 minutes in any direction. It's too convenient and makes it easier for me to spend the money in my pocket. I'd rather have to drive for miles and hunt for the closest place for what I am needing, hoping they have it. Luckily, there are lots of places to eat around here. At least I can appreciate some good food, but really - is that a good enough reason for me to stick around here? Or maybe it's that I am feeling restless and bored. There is just not enough to do!
