My neighborhood is splendid, flourishing, and is in a huge transitional period. It has received some criticism recently for these transitions but, independent of that, it is still beautiful! Gentrification is something we’re struggling with right now, but we have a lot of groups who are on the front lines of social justice and equality. We are optimistic that we can keep this neighborhood welcoming to everybody. We have an ample supply of transportation options ranging from bike/scooter ride shares to buses, to standard things like Uber and Lyft. It’s never hard to get around and the weather is often fair which makes walking a great option! The roads are well maintained and there are a lot of great bike and walking trails. Our city is called the Oak City, and it truly lives up to that name. Every street is dotted with trees--green leaves poking out everywhere that they can. We even have a city farm close to downtown that accepts volunteers every week to maintain the beds. There’s a real sense of community here and a lot of that is due, in part, to the appreciation that locals have for nature and the environment. Any place can be a city or neighborhood, but not every place can make sure to pack every nook and cranny with new life and growth the way that we do. One of the most charming places in my neighborhood is the local park. It features a man-made pond, bridges, walking trails, and a carousel! There are vendors in the park occasionally and there are often music nights during the summer. Even though it’s buried in the heart of a urban area, you can walk into it and feel like you’ve been immersed in the real outdoors...and when it’s lit up by fireflies at night, you’d swear magic was in the air. If you’re a fan of food and dining, this neighborhood rocks. Within walking distance of my house, you can find some of the best fried chicken, cole slaw, ribs, and--surprisingly enough, sushi! You never have to go far to find something absolutely delicious. There are also a lot of delivery apps available here, which is great for two reasons. Firstly, who doesn’t want a calzone delivered at 3 a.m? And second, these apps provide jobs to anyone with a car, a good record, and time to work! On the topic of employment, we have a really diverse offering. There are rideshare apps, delivery apps, dog-walking apps, lots of stores and restaurants, call centers, universities, laboratories, and hospitals. I’ve talked up a lot of the good points of this neighborhood, but there’s one glaring issue that it would be unfair not to mention. During the summer (which feels endless here) the city really becomes a swamp. High humidity, ruthless sunshine, and little to no breeze makes this a tough place to be if you’re someone who is used to more mild weather. Most apartments have pools nearby or even on the premises, though, so you can always take a quick swim to cool down! 
