Researchers have found that an unconscious, unintentional, and widespread implicit bias present in society has direct effects on the success of people everywhere. In the classroom, this bias may be based on stereotypes or beliefs related to the characteristics of race or gender and can influence a teacher’s attitudes toward students without their conscious awareness that this phenomenon is occurring. For example, if a teacher has unintentionally formed a positive attitude towards a certain gender or race, they may directly act on this belief by having higher educational expectations for an individual who falls under the favored categories. Additionally, the individual will be raised in a more challenging, accepting environment and will have a greater chance of thriving in school and beyond. The Pygmalion study illustrated this finding and showed just how powerful expectations can be by suggesting that teachers who were primed with positive beliefs about certain students paved the way for academic success for those select individuals.
Furthermore, implicit racial biases can affect ones understanding of an individual's actions and may even cause behavioral misinterpretations. The Kirwan Institute video on biases in schools demonstrated that it is very common for educators’ attitudes to directly impact their reactions to certain behaviors resulting in faulty consequences for certain students. I was surprised to learn that 95% of suspensions are a result of nonviolent behavior, showing that a student’s intentions may be falsely interpreted causing them to be disciplined. The way a student is raised can impact how they act in a school setting. For example, if a student is raised in a culture where they are told it is important to be verbally expressive and passionate about what they believe in, this may be interpreted as acting out in a school setting and they will be disciplined accordingly. Thus, I think it is extremely important that we raise awareness on this occurrence and be mindful of our personal biases before acting too quickly. Students who are not at fault yet are frequently being disciplined may develop apathy and negative feelings toward their education. Focus our attention on Kirwan Institute’s mission of creating a just and inclusive society so that everyone is given an equal opportunity to achieve success.
As far as finding ways to address implicit racial bias in the educational context, It is especially important to make teachers and other administration culturally compentent and aware of the diversity of their students. “By better understanding and responding to students’ cultures, teachers are better-positioned to interpret potential disciplinary situations in light of students’ cultural orientations, as opposed to relying on implicit biases”. Developing a culturally responsive school through applied practice will help establish a positive and encouraging environment for students to succeed.
