Derrida also proposes his postmodern view of analyzing femininity as both a historical movement and a social construct in “Choreographies”, an interview with Christie Macdonald.  Macdonald convenes the interview with a quote from Emma Goldman, a maverick feminist who brought up the idea of the dance as a way to question Derrida’s thoughts on a woman’s place and role in society and how this relates to the revolution of femininity. Derrida’s response reflects the struggles of reactive feminism and how the movement has been silenced in the past. Derrida agrees with Goldman’s statement and sees importance in the idea of dancing outside of the state.  This is a carnivalesque way of breaking away from the state’s directive that everyone be associated with a gender identification. The dance is a liberation of body where it is aware of itself and no longer enslaved to the dogma of the state. Macdonald and Derrida continue to refer to this idea of the dance throughout the interview in order to describe the feminist movement, its history, as well as the fluid nature of describing what it means to be a woman. The postmodern view of feminism involves the existence of rigid signifiers entering into play making things flux to also show how the “meaning” of feminism can be different for everyone.  
The history of the feminist movement carries “a dream of reappropriation, liberation, autonomy, and mastery”.  Derrida aims to point out the sexual differences in order to show that women do not need to be intertwined with the masculine power structure.  Women can be competent when separated from the structure all together. Inverting the structure (placing femininity above masculinity) only continues the struggle and in the end makes women either subjected to men’s power, or powerless. Derrida suggests, instead, that women should avoid the pre-existing power structure completely in order to be liberated from the oppressive nature of patriarchy and empower themselves and their independence void of masculinity.  
Michelle Chaplin, an up-and-coming author, analyzes feminism and its involvement with postmodernism stating that “if a woman seeks to be in a 'male' position of dominance, she makes herself subject to both castration and anti-castration". This creates a situation for females known as a double bind. Essentially, if the woman tries to seek power in the masculine power structure, and finds any form of success, some people will criticize the person, saying, "you're such a man,” with intent to harm. This is a form of metaphorical castration. Another negative response to women climbing the masculine power structure would be to say, "you're a woman. You aren't supposed to be doing _____. " This is a form of anti-castration. This paradoxical dilemma, or double-bind, shows that women become exposed to a spectrum of criticisms if they choose to engage in the power struggle with men. 
In Derrida’s interview, “Choreographies,” he explains that the feminist movement is more subversive than the traditional comparison of men and women as opposing categories, even so referring to it as risky. It is what he calls the “dance,” and it is “not synonymous with powerlessness or fragility” but a way of empowerment. In challenging the male-centered hierarchy of gender, complications can arise reinforcing the male hierarchy. If women fail in the revolution that they will be asserting their weakness, yet they also need to try and avoid inverting the hierarchy because that will cause them to be associated with masculinity. Nonetheless, feminism can benefit greatly from postmodern attitudes, particularly deconstruction, which commits to the comprehension of subjectivity and consequently women's the inferiority of women. Macdonald asks Derrida to describe a woman’s place in which he responds that there is no definite place because feminity is in a constant state of change, constantly letting rigid signiferers enter into play. Women are therefore members of this characteristically flux movement and can be described as participants of the dance. This other place that is discussed dismantles the traditional way of viewing women in the hierarchy and in comparison to males. The constant movement by participants in the dance relates to the nonrestrictive, free movement, high energy change. For the feminist revolution to be successful, it has to be free and flowing. 
