Nietzsche’s focus on the will to power and the revaluation of values associates him with the philosophy of nihilism. His writing suggests the fluid characteristic of values and how we should seek to question them so that they align with our drives in seeking the greater good. His concept of the revaluation of values entails questioning all traditional values by saying “yes” to rejecting accepted beliefs and norms that produce behavior. In doing so, the person acts independently and becomes the creator of values in control of their motives and attitudes toward life and dominance.  
Nihilism is an essential factor in the process of deconstructing traditional ideologies. It can be considered the transitional phase between deconstruction and reconstruction. Rather than looking at its negative connotation associated with the rejection beliefs, it can instead be viewed as a meaningful part of human development. Since it is this in-between period, a time of disconnecting from old principles before replacing them with new ones, the philosophical position of nihilism holds that it occurs during a very vulnerable point in life. This is a time where the postmodern question  of “who should I become” rises in attempts of discovering one’s identity. Derrida analyzes Nietzsche’s explanation of identity and views it as a construct. In this way, there is a fluid component to human nature and you as a person are nothing but you have the potential to become anything. Derrida analyzes the concept of a proper name. He reads Nietzsche in how he advances through a plurality of masks but does not claim a proper name, a postmodern characteristics that challenges the that we all must posses a “gender identification card”.  
Nietzsche posits the principle of will to power as a fundamental extinct that drives humans in either creative or destructive ways. Therefore it is neither good nor bad, but simply a basic drive in humans that can be expressed in distinct ways. It is characteristically postmodern to use one’s creativity to break free of the objective reality. The Übermensch is a term used by Nietzsche to describe an individual who strives to overcome humanity and surpass life’s difficulties. In Nietzsche’s essay “Schopenhaur as Educator” he described how the will to power can be used to harness self-mastery guided by the notion that “your true self does not lie buried deep within you, but rather rises immeasurably high above you".
Derrida elaborates on Nietzsche’s concern of contemporary reading and suggests that philosophy itself functions in a similar way with political activity: philosophy and politics are both grounded in readings regarding the relationship between program and event.  A program can relate to political advances that occur in attempts to brings about change, such as the feminist movement, and the event can be associated with a resulting change in structuralism. Derrida is interested in Nietzsche’s philosophy of language and in particular “the utterance producing machine”. This machine functions analogously with deconstruction as they attempt to transform language. Derrida’s motive in deciphering language stems from his philosophy that effects or structure of a text are not reducible to its “truth”, or the author’s intended meaning.  
