Lyotard’s second point concerns a decline in trusting in the principle of progress of humanity. The Modern Movement made assumptions that the beliefs and developments and social constructs of society would benefit everyone. This restricted philosophy of a grounded subject failed to acknowledge personal differences and beliefs across culture. The notion of a decentered subject and mourning the loss of confidence in reason characterizes postmodernism. Ironically, skepticism in absolutes and realism can actually promote progress, as skepticism naturally encourages further interest.

Lyotard’s third point delves into expression of thought that is applied to various areas such as art and philosophy. He encourages the proliferation of self, and delegitimizes the avant-garde, under the premise that the avant-garde is simply change in order to be different, whereas postmodernism seeks change for justice and knowledge. I align with this critique of avant-garde, and further critique the style’s radical shift from normality, which initially creates a reaction from people. Once the style becomes normality, people become unimpressed and look for something new. Hence, an endless cycle is formed where people will never be satisfied with the “new”. This is beneficial for modernism, which seeks progress and polar changes, but is not fit for postmodernism.

Postmodern architecture is interesting in that is rejects the goal of going for perfect form, and defies the traditional methods of construction. This type of architecture is nontraditional and uses vibrant colors and basic shapes to create something new. Its appearance borrows stylistic aspects from many structures and then combines them to create something unique. The modernist tendency towards innovation is expunged as postmodern architecture is fixed on the concept of borrowing ideas and making them renewed.  The Las Vegas strip is a prime example of postmodernism in that it serves as subversion from reality. It is recognized as an aesthetic pastiche, which Frederic Jameson defined as “a blank parody and loss of humor”. There are many hotels in Las Vegas that have borrowed styles from places around the world and recreated it to make it an ideal place for tourists. This kind of themed architecture represents an ideal version of places around the world including a New York landscape, Paris, and ancient Egypt.

Postmodern artworks utilize modern ideas and blend them with popular culture in order to captivate a broad audience and display its authentic meaning. Artists target mass appeal by connecting to the socio-cultural condition. The previous divide between art and culture is broken down in the postmodern movement. “Pulp Fiction” is considered a postmodern film since it acts retrospectively, takes elements from previous films, and references characters from the past (e.g. Marilyn Monroe). The film disregards a linear narrative and instead is split into three separate stories. The film creates something unique while simultaneously paying tribute to classic films; in essence, it popularizes modernism.

Overall, postmodernism can be difficult to define, but it represents a distrust of the grand theories and guidelines laid out by the Modern Era. It is rooted in modernism but with a twist, generating new styles and ways of thinking that are based in more uncertainty. It refers to the instillation of fundamental changes to the modern way of thinking, making it more inclusive. It takes away the unity that once guided human experience to better represent individuals.  The virtue of postmodern perspective is that focusing on surrealism allows for an optimistic outlook on the future of society, and promotes room for improvement or change that was not as welcomed in the limited structure of modern thought.
