In Dr. Willm’s Sex, Gender, and Society class here at Gonzaga, we discuss the implications of breaking away from traditional gender roles. In the class, we reflect on the idea that if we “do gender” appropriately then we sustain the institutional arrangements based on sex categories. However, if we fail to “do gender” appropriately then we as individuals are questioned instead of the institutions we are tied to. We feel the need to dress girls with big bows and pink colors and boys with blue colors in order to mark them as either male or female. If a child does not have these marking, then people become uncertain of the child’s gender which can be troubling. Postmodern philosophy would question the importance of needing to mark ourselves to associate with a particular gender identity. It would suggest a subversion from mandating explicit expression as either male or female. We “do gender” or express it unintentionally by following the gender roles that have been ingrained in us since we were young. Following rules condones and reinforces the structure of the binary system. Working to characterize one’s gender involves a performance, it is done in order to express ourselves but also others to identify us.  
Derrida uses deconstruction to challenge the fundamental belief of gender in general.  Derrida’s view in regards to if the “I” has a gender, relates back to the idea of gender as a performance between individuals. He says that gender is determined by the other and founded in a relation; if the relation is playful or frisky it allows one to enter into a sphere of ambiguity. In this way, it escapes the traditional classification of gender which encourage as to behave in specific ways. This fluid way of identifying with a gender correlates with the dynamic aspect of the feminist dance. Derrida thinks of the dance as having the capacity to surprise. This element of surprise serves as a signifier for the kind of unforeseen action that Derrida says is necessary for the ongoing struggle of feminist politics. The choreography of the dance moves us to a place between sexual difference where difference are celebrated. Postmodern theories welcome differences and eliminate the representation of gender as implying a certain meaning. I believe this is the goal of feminism: to abolish inequalities related to gender. Differences should not be abolished completely because then there would be no dance. The dance is dependent on the exchange of sexes in accordance with various rhythms. Postmodern feminism helps to overcome the binary vision of the contemporary world  by rejecting it and instead placing attention on rejecting the restricted dualism and culturally constructed truths. Derrida plays a significant role in the progressive movement of feminism by way of his deconstructive approach to the binaries suggesting that oppositions are unstable and mutually dependent on one another. In popular media, there are many artists and celebrities who use their platforms to send a message about feminism. A recent example is the great Keith Urban, who said, “When you hear somebody say somebody hits like a girl, how does that hit you? Is that such a bad thing? When you hear a song that they play sayin’ you run the world? Do you believe it?Will you live to see it?”.
