Okay, diving into the deep end of the pool with this topic. It seems practically everyone has strong opinions dealing with the subject of racism. But, upon closer inspection, how many of us are actually racist? Note: for the remainder of this article I will be purposely referring to white/black issues, and not to those of any other races.
To preface this further I’ll need to establish some ground rules for this article.

Black Slavery is dead in America. It will never return.
Nobody currently alive in America was ever a legal slave in America.
No Black man or woman currently alive in America is owed recompense for damages suffered by their ancestors. That’s just simply not how our system of justice works, nor should it be. If it were this way, then everyone would be both owing and owed recompense for any and all transgressions of law going back to the beginning of time.
No White man or woman currently alive in America owes recompense for damages inflicted by their ancestors.That’s just simply not how our system of justice works, nor should it be. If it were this way, then everyone would be both owing and owed recompense for any and all transgressions of law going back to the beginning of time.
It is accepted for the sake of this article that neither the Black or White race, in general, desires the outright extinction of the other. If we can’t get that far in our maturity, then genocide is the only solution possible.

	Racism is defined as “a belief that race is the primary determinant of human traits and capacities and that racial differences produce an inherent superiority of a particular race”
First of all, not “A determinant”, but “THE primary determinant”. I’d venture to guess that very, very few in our society actually see themselves superior based primarily upon their race. Secondly, superiority at what? Athleticism, Mathematics, Musical Ability, Vision, Strength, Video Games, Eating hot dogs, Surgery? Isn’t the notion of racial superiority at the least, totally obsolete, given the wide ranging array of aspects by which to judge superiority that exist in modern society.
	It’s been my experience, having lived with and among many who belong to other races other than my own, that it is our behavioral and cultural differences that feed racism, and not any notions of inherent, all-encompassing superiority on either side; and that, by definition, cannot constitute racism.
	Just because the stereotypical cultural mannerisms of a race are off-putting to someone of another race doesn’t make that person racist. It just means that they don’t like those mannerisms, perhaps don’t like those that ascribe to those mannerisms, and may tend to lump others of the same race together and assume they also practice those mannerisms. To combat this, all political posturing, blatant ignorance of logic, one-sided thinking, and the desire to provoke must be abandoned.
	It is my belief that much perceived racism exists today because of political posturing. In this context, I define political posturing as the unilateral belief that “the other side” is wrong in every aspect. That “racism” can only exist in one direction. “Racism” is not the original sin that all white people are born with. Black people can be every bit as guilty of this as whites. 
