	Relatively Evil is a moniker that I have ascribed to myself as being a relatively open-minded person. In my experience, most people don’t like that. It is, in one form or another, the label I see forming in the eyes of those I tend to question...so be it then. I tend to actually observe and reflect upon aspects of life and society that others, most in our society in my opinion, accept blindly in one form or another. Even I am not immune to this at times. 
	This article, and all of the rest on the site for that matter, will periodically be altered by me as a result of further thought, and ideas brought to light by your comments. So, I encourage you to share your thoughts with me and check back on various topics from time to time as the work evolves. Maybe you’ll teach me something.
	Now, quiet as it is kept, I’m not sadistic, cruel, violent, aggressive, or blatantly mean in any fashion that I’m aware of. However, I’m commonly labeled as such by others, whom I’ll refer to in the context of this site as shallow thinkers. I’m also not a particularly popular people-person. I don’t follow trends easily, don’t have many habits...good or bad; and, although I’ll speak kindly and act politely to those I encounter in life’s pursuits, I don’t tend to get personally interested with others. So, I’ve relegated myself to the category of Relatively Evil, not that Satan worshipping, genocidal evil that makes the news...but an evil I hope we can all live with. What I do seem to have is a curiosity concerning why people do some of the things they do; and why they believe some of the things they believe.
	My first point of contention, why do so many consider curiosity a form of condemnation? Please understand, if I question anything of you, I’m not doubting your sanity or intelligence. I’d just like to know why you do, or believe some of the things I see or hear you professing to believe. Ask some Christians why they are a Christian, and many envision you spitting in the face of Christ. Ask someone with a Tattoo why they get tattoos in the first place, and boy do they get aggressive! Ask someone why they drink alcohol, and, if they’re not drunk, they’ll think you are crazy. If they are drunk, they’ll probably try and hit you. Ask someone why they think that the good ole USA is the greatest country in the world (by the way, I actually think that it is at least one of the best myself)...and ask them to not answer with the “party line” answer...ie. freedom, opportunity...but to dig deep considering most have never lived in another country for comparison (myself included) and give me an answer I’ve never heard before and you’re libel to be tarred and feathered. At the very least, you’ll be labelled a communist. What do Native Americans think of the good ole USA?



	Now, as to answering these, there’s a few theories here. Do they hear me differently? Do they hear “Why do you have all of those dumbass tattoos?” Do they think that I’m asking because I disagree with them? As if we should all be born understanding these things? Do they not fully understand why they are a Christian and don’t like this drug into the light with a direct question? Do they drink for the taste (which in my experience is rare) or the effect? One of the effects being that you won’t primarily remember those very effects. Do they really subscribe to tribalism so strongly, or are they so self absorbed to secretly believe that their country is the best because it is where they were born?
	These, and many other topics will be addressed on this site. It is definitely not my hope that I will convince anyone of anything other than to instill a desire to remove your rose (or BS...as the case may be) colored glasses once in a while and take a look around to try and take a deeper understanding of your beliefs, whatever they may be.
