	Our media feeds the disharmony between the races on a constant basis. When a black man is shot by a white police officer, which by the way I see as a “blue/black” problem instead of a “white/black” problem, the media immediately start covering stories about tearing down confederate monuments. What does that have to do with anything? It’s political posturing, putting a spin on a story of interest for a desired goal...more racial tension. When a black person is interviewed on the news, they’re almost inevitably interviewed by a black reporter. Our media should be brought to answer for stoking the flames of unrest.
	Why do these stereotypes exist?
	We cannot seek to bring about harmony between the races by seeking to destroy everything we find offensive about each other. First, we must endeavor to train ourselves to no longer be offended. Second, we should realize that we really don’t need many of these divisive things to begin with. We should ultimately mature enough to abandon our own “offensive” aspects and relics as a statement of who we are; and specifically not as a statement of who we are not.
	Ask yourself, does it really offend you to see, or even know of the existence of Confederate monuments? You may think yes, immediately. But, I ask you does it really offend you; or is it “supposed” to offend you? Are you offended perhaps because you’re on the societal bandwagon where being offended is a part of your mantra? 
	When the National Museum of African American History and Culture was opened in Washington DC, I was at first offended by its existence. Why? I thought that it represented more of the same anti-white, we’re all victims, you owe us mentality, or at the very least more of the “we’re different from you and you’re going to have to put up with it, white assholes” type of thing. But, later I realized that I don’t live in Washington DC. I probably won’t even visit there in my lifetime. Even if I did, nobody’s forcing me to go to this thing. So, what’s it to me? Nothing. Do I need it torn down? Nope. Do I need to have an opinion about it at all? Nope. 
	Then I got to thinking, what if black people were to get everything that they wanted? What if every last trace of Pre-Civil War America was obliterated. What if every black person actually got their 40 acres and a mule? What if the US officially condemned itself for its part in slavery? What if we made affirmative action the status quo? What if we did it all? If white people sought out and destroyed every last shred of “racism”...literally left black people with nothing remaining to be outraged about? Could Black Americans adapt to that?
	I have a guess as to how that would go over. I used to be in business. One of the things I found the most puzzling was dealing with customers over refunds. If a customer made a complaint about something that warranted a refund, I’d just give it to them. You’d think that this would be good business practice, but no. Often, refunding them only made them furious. They were in love with their anger and saw the refund as pulling the rug out from under them where they’d have nothing left to gripe about. Would this happen in such a scenario with Black America? I think probably so.
