	It could additionally be argued that this grand, sweeping policy change is not comprehensive, but rather serves only as a Band-Aid on a larger American gun control issue, and that its short-term relevance comes at a high risk, high reward price. Many of the studies done on gun control and child-access prevention laws in general seem to be done by think tanks and political organizations that have a clear bias and agenda set in place – which doesn’t invalidate the studies in their current form, however it does mean that any analysis done by these organizations and think tanks needs to be taken with a grain of salt. 
	This definitely includes the National Rifle Association, but also groups like Gun Violence Prevention and the Children’s Defense Fund undergo a great deal of fundraising each year to donate money to research preventing firearm violence. To hear the National Rifle Association speak about firearm violence would be a very different story than what would be heard by a spokesperson for the Children’s Defense Fund – it is important to remember that these statistics can be tweaked and bent in different ways in order to best serve the needs of those displaying them.
	In an America that is more democratic leaning, perhaps with a democrat in the Oval Office and a democratic majority in the Senate once again, legislature like this might do well and actually gain some traction. However, with such vehement second amendment defense in the present political regime, I do not see very high feasibility for this policy long-term. It might work to slowly begin a shift that becomes seismic, where more liberal states that do not yet have child access prevention laws in place begin the work of enacting and enforcing them – perhaps then the concept will begin to snowball. However, if any child access prevention legislation were to be brought forth in 2019, it is my belief that it would not succeed overall due to the current American system. 
With only 27 current U.S. states representative as having child access prevention laws on the books, it would likely be a more attainable notion to push forward with simply getting some form of child access prevention law on the books in the other 23 states, even if it is fairly lax or lacking some critical pieces. At this juncture, having anything down is better than nothing, and could lead to a slow increase in safety requirements over time. It is important to ensure that states with a large population of more conservative citizens will not feel like their rights are being encroached upon.
We have an overwhelmingly Republican political climate in America right now, and many conservative Americans are staunchly pro-firearm and pro-Second Amendment. It would take a lot of convincing to show them why we might need this legislature, and as the number of school shootings continues to rise with no change being done in the background to prevent these tragedies, it seems less and less likely that the current political system will allow for any sort of gun control legislature to put an end to it. Guns are not just part of our rights as American citizens, but are deeply engrained in our culture, making it exceedingly difficult to convince those who rely on them to feed their families (professional hunters, etc) to store them that way when chances are their families stored them incorrectly for years, no one has gotten hurt, so they see no reason to discontinue the process. 
