What became known as the Atlanta Gun Violence Project brought together not just local Atlanta police, but also Federal and State law enforcement. Together, they worked heavily on pursuing leads for illegal gun trade, as well as routine traffic stops for unregistered firearms and going into local schools to work with the juvenile populations there. The Atlanta Gun Violence Project was shockingly successful, however the major problem seemed to be that there was no direct, incriminating correlation between the fall of juvenile gun violence rates and the Atlanta Gun Violence Project specifically – it is not known if the tireless work of so many officers in the region and beyond was what led to this decline, or if it simply happened organically. 
This is not to say that the Atlanta Gun Violence Project was in vain, however – it created lasting relationships between many citizens and their communities that cannot have a price put on them. However, that is not necessarily enough to warrant a PACT program or Gun Violence Project in every major city to attempt to decrease the juvenile gun violence rates. There simply is not enough funding for projects like these in the areas that all need them, not without significant research confirming their efficacy. When looking at an urban area like Atlanta and comparing it to a less densely populated state like New Mexico, it is obvious that juvenile gun violence seems to be an equalizer. While the rates might change, it seems clear that it is largely thought to be an issue of public health concern, and authorities have great difficulty deciding what to do in order to combat it without spending money they are not given and do not have. 
So, what is to be done, then, when federal funding has blockaded major players and think tanks from researching the benefits of gun control itself? In the meantime, it might be enough to simply increase the number of states that have child access prevention laws in place at all – 27 is barely half of the US states, and even the weakest form of legislation would be better than nothing for many areas. Studies have proven that states where child access prevention laws are prevalent have experienced a nearly 20 percent decrease in high school student gun carrying, and that alone is an important start to saving lives – every little bit counts. 
	Overall, Child-Access Prevention laws are a tool that, when properly utilized, can and do save lives of juveniles across America. However, their non-standardized format means that in each state a child access prevention law will mean a different thing, and it some cases it does not exist at all. Creating a unified child access prevention law that stretches across all of America will enable lawmakers to present a unified front in order to best help their youngest constituents, while at the same time cautioning and penalizing adults who might be leaving these firearms too easily accessible to these minors.
