	While there is currently no national-level firearm regulation that works specifically against suicide prevention, there are several local-level, non-legislative means that many states are utilizing in order to help curb the suicide rate in their areas. 
	New Hampshire has established the Gun Safety Coalition – a group of firearm sellers who have been united by a common desire to curtail gun-related suicides in their communities – after a concerned gun seller named Ralph Demicco decided enough was enough after unwittingly selling three firearms to suicidal individuals. He created the Gun Safety Coalition out of this passion, which connects firearm salespeople and experts with public health and medical officials in order to increase knowledge and gun safety within the community. 

	Posters, handouts and informational pamphlets became available to firearm salespeople across New Hampshire, and even after all of this time, 48% of them still have this information available to their customers. Shute goes on to say that since New Hampshire’s Gun Safety Coalition was founded in 2009, over a dozen other states have followed suit in order to create their own similar union of gun shop owners who are focused on preventing tragedies among their customer bases.
	Other states have had similar ideas, but executed their plans differently. Rhode Island is unique in that they have the RIVDRS – the Rhode Island Violent Death Reporting System – a compendium of information concerning violent deaths, including suicide. They can use this information and statistical data to drill down into the death rates within their state, and look for correlation or methods of prevention that might not have otherwise been discovered.
	The group of Rhode Island policymakers tasked with looking at the RIVDRS data met ten times to look over the 2014 data, and ultimately discovered that a lot of the firearm-related suicide information was incomplete in the database, due to missing elements such a gun model information. What Jiang et al. did upon finding this information out was to reach out to various police departments, discover what information might have been missed, and then go back with that information to flesh out the reports listed in the RIVDRS system. 

	This data is significant because it led to a stronger connection between the researchers working within the RIVDRS and the police officers and homicide detectives working within the community. Once the officers were made to understand the importance of reporting these minutiae, it became much easier for policymakers and other public officials to access and utilize the data from the RIVDRS. According to Jiang et al., 42 states and territories now participate in the NVDRS, which is a 2016 expansion that extended the NVDRS by ten participants. By expanding these violent death reporting systems and registries, we create more opportunities for national-level policy change and improvement to touch the lives of our citizens.
