	One often-cited misconception is that if someone is suicidal enough, they will use whatever means necessary in order to achieve the means to an end. However, as previously discussed, many suicides are spur of the moment decisions predicated by an angry mood and feelings of helplessness, leading to rash decisions. Once someone is extricated from a situation in which they find themselves experiencing suicidal ideation, odds are good that they will no longer feel the drive to end their lives. This is especially helpful for men, who experience impulsive suicidal ideation more than women.
	Another up-and-coming way to combat suicide via firearm is smart gun technology. J. John Mann writes that fingerprint scanners and other recognition technologies are on the market, and are poised to create a society in which only the one to whom the gun is registered is able to unlock and utilize it. 

	While this personalization is a fantastic new means to create change within the United States, it is not taking off as well as hoped. According to Mann & Michel, there is currently just one manufacturer of personalized firearm technology, and these technologies are sold just through the internet, as there is not currently a firearm vendor in a brick and mortar store who will agree to carry this new technology. The United States has the second amendment – the right to bear arms – which other countries do not have, making it substantially more difficult within the confines of American society to restrict gun use and therefore suicide by self-inflicted gunshot wound.

	Many American citizens believe that if we do not talk about suicide, it will stay at bay like an animal looking for attention. However, studies have shown time and time again that suicide is a silent killer that does not pay any mind to age, location, demographic or circumstance – it can seek and destroy anyone who pays it enough heed over time. 
	Suicide by firearm is by far currently the most prevalent means of suicide within the United States of America, coming in at a combined 51.5% of suicides completed per annum. It is true that suicide does not discriminate, however studies have shown that the majority of completed firearm suicides are done by middle-aged men in rural areas. 
	While some states have legislature in place to ensure that firearms are restricted, there is currently no national law or legislature that helps mitigate these circumstances, and only sixteen states currently have legislation in place to penalize adults for letting youth get access to a firearm. Additionally, eight states are currently not a part of the National Violent Death Reporting System, leading to an incomplete reporting index. Multiple studies have shown that statewide legislature concerning gun registration, purchase and storage has proven effective at deterring suicide, especially within our youth population.
