	These are issues that are prevalent and obviously focus on American trends, but this is more of a public health concern than something that can necessarily be shaped or fixed by a policy change – for much of this, there is a deeper root cause that is not as easily tackled. Many gun violence legislators aim to tackle this issue, but in the end they are simply putting a bandage over a gaping wound – it is easy to address a proximate cause of juvenile gun violence, but the root cause is more symptomatic of our society as a whole and would be far more difficult to address with simple legislature.
	Another barrier making it increasingly difficult for further action to be taken against child gun violence is the Dickey Amendment. In the 1990s, gun violence became a real subject of concern for many Americans, and the Center for Disease Control began to take a harder look at it as an obvious public health issue. However in 1996, the National Rifle Association bit back, claiming that the Center for Disease Control was biased against guns and unable to hold back their prejudice concerning firearm safety, concerned they were conflating firearm ownership with lethality. Representative Jay Dickey of Arkansas took charge, adding a provision to a spending bill that claimed that no funds made available to the CDC by Congress were to be used in researching, advocating or promoting gun control – a sweeping generalization that would spell trouble for gun control research and safety measures for years to come, spreading its reach to funding the National Institute of Health in 2011 as well. 
	The Dickey Amendment was recently further tweaked in the wake of the Parkland, Florida mass shooting tragedy, and has now been given an update to say that while the Center for Disease Control and some other agencies are prohibited from “using appropriated funding to advocate or promote gun control, the Secretary of Health and Human Services has stated the CDC has the authority to conduct research on the causes of gun violence”. This might seem insignificant, but it has recently opened the door for there to be further research conducted on the root causes of gun control – this research can be presented to states and local authorities, and hopefully from there some safety measures can be researched further and taken into consideration without the National Rifle Association considering them a black mark against all firearms.
	Because of how sweeping and prevalent firearm violence is, there is no shortage of ideas or suggestions for how to cut back or stop the progression of this unfortunate trend. However, juvenile violence in particular is unique in that there is no legal way for youth to obtain a firearm for personal use – this relies, rather, on lax regulation on the part of their parents, guardians, or other adults in their lives. Firearm regulation to curtail youth rates of gun violence then cannot be created as purchasing requirements, but rather must be levied toward the adults in their lives. The most prevalent of these concepts is known as a Child-Access Prevention laws, or a CAP law in some areas.
