	It is equally important to note that not all firearm homicides and suicides perpetrated by juveniles and minors are intentional: a good number of firearm incidents each year are accidental. In a group of 132 juvenile deaths and injuries classified by intent and studied by Grossman, 65 were considered unintentional, comprising almost 50% of the total number of minors. 
 While we assume that these injuries by minors are caused by intentional, flagrant disregard for personal safety, it is important to keep in mind that oftentimes these are accidental discharges, or something as simple as a toddler picking up a gun not knowing what will happen when they do so.
	One in three American homes contains a firearm, and a surprising 7% - 4.6 million children – live in a home where there is a loaded and unlocked firearm present, according to results of a survey conducted by Azrael et al. 2018. When looking at homes where both children and firearms are present, 55% have been recorded as owning one or more firearm in an unlocked location, while 38% claim to have a trigger lock on their guns, and 13% kept their guns taken apart and put away unless they were actively in use. In homes where there are no children present, by contrast, 28% report keeping their firearms unlocked and loaded, and 44% claim to keep theirs locked, unloaded and separated from ammunition. Also according to Schuster, with teenagers are more likely to have firearms available, and homes in the American south tend to have more firearms unlocked and readily available as well.
	There are some factors that are thought to contribute to juvenile gun violence that are not as easy to regulate or mitigate. For instance, 64% of minors who have experienced this issue are male, and 58% are non-white. Black teenagers in particular are a large source of concern for juvenile gun violence – the homicide rate for black male teens in 2016 was 57 per 100,000, which is twenty times higher than the rate for Caucasian teens. Gender is another conflating topic – while black female teens are still more susceptible to firearm violence, they only present at a rate of 8 per 100,000, as compared to 1 per 100,000 Caucasian teens. 
There are a few reasons why this might be, but a lot of it could be chalked up to pure speculation – it might be easiest to assume that these children are victims of masculinity and how we as an American society expect a “man” to act, even if the “man” in question is no older than ten or eleven years old. These are burdens and expectations we do not tend to put on our daughters, because a little girl toting a gun and going hunting is frowned upon in many areas of the United States. It does not, however, excuse any child from gun violence, regardless of gender, but rather notates a need for us to focus doubly hard on young men who might be feeling the pressure to conform in a different, potentially more violent, way than their young female counterparts.
