	Because there is no national-level legislature preventing firearm purchase from being a precipitant in gun-related suicides, it is incredibly difficult to reduce the possibility of death by self-inflicted gunshot wound without federal intervention. However, studies such as the RIVDRS model have made it possible at a smaller, more local level that works with public policy makers and community stakeholders ensure that what is currently known about these silent killers is made available to all citizens. It is the job of public policymakers to pursue legislation updates – the state of Georgia’s suicide legislation, for instance, is seven years old, which is severely outdated. 

	While public administration involves working with lawmakers to update this legislation, we also cannot forget the importance of grassroots movements and volunteerism. The American Foundation for Suicide Prevention stages a Capitol Day in each state throughout the year, encouraging volunteers to pass information out to their local representatives in their state capitols in order to disseminate new knowledge about suicide in their areas. They also lead many Out of the Darkness walks throughout the year across America, raising money for AFSP’s employees to present suicide prevention workshops throughout the nation, from middle school-aged children all the way up to suicide prevention training for law enforcement individuals. These volunteers are instrumental in the future of AFSP, and in creating change from the roots up. By keeping suicide statistics and prevention in the public eye, it is impossible to turn a blind eye to it long-term. This is what will lead to eventual change: volunteers, grassroots movements, and nonprofit involvement at both the local and federal levels.
	With stringent, firm legislation concerning firearm purchase, ownership, storage and locks in place, America could very well see a decline in its firearm-related suicides. However, with gun-related violence ever-prevalent within our culture, the future of firearm safety is murky at best. It would take presentation of a concerted, united front in order for our culture to shift in such a way that suicide is forced into the light, and made to reveal itself for the monster that it is. Hopefully, with time, a solution can be found that does not feel as if it infringes upon our second amendment rights as American citizens, but still creates a safe space for gun ownership within our culture.
