	It is thought that the reason behind this is entangled with a rural population’s lack of general resources – oftentimes, an area comprised mostly of rural citizens will lack a lot of opportunities that an urban population would have access to, such as timely doctor appointments, preventative care, etc. These populations also often experience mental stressors that would benefit from psychological or psychiatric help that cannot always be found in a rural setting: families often are trapped in a cycle of debt and bankruptcy, or are more likely to feel “stuck” due to a business that is family-owned and operated, making moving outside of the area impossible in all practicality. 
Westefeld et al. go on to say that occupations more likely to have a higher risk of suicide than other careers are ones with prolonged exposure to firearms, such as law enforcement or farmers. There also exists the unfortunate correlation between military service members and suicide, many of these deaths occurring after a military service member returns home and cannot cope with civilian life after experiencing trauma while deployed.
	Overall, it is apparent through these studies that while suicide via firearm is a universal ill, it is more likely to strike at certain populations than others. We are poised to see higher rates in middle-aged men who live in rural areas and have a gun in the home already, but while we keep a watchful eye over this particular demographic we cannot forget the others who fall outside of this scope but are just as likely to make an attempt as anyone else might.

	With suicide rates as high as they are, many American government officials have come up with a myriad of preventative measures to help cauterize our country’s slowly-weeping wound. While it is true that middle-aged citizens are the most likely to experience a gun-related suicide attempt, they are far from the only group touched by this issue. 
	Youth – here defined between the ages of birth to nineteen years old – comprise an unfortunate number of suicides per annum as well.
There are several factors that have conceivably contributed to the youth suicide rate’s nearly being halved over a nineteen year span, however firearm legislation has made a significant impact.
	Child Access Prevention laws act as incentive to prevent parents or guardians from allowing children to obtain or use firearms while unsupervised. Ideally, this would motivate parents to supervise or completely withdraw access to firearms to minors. Unfortunately, CAP laws do not currently exist at the federal level and are currently dealt with on a state-by-state basis. According to Table 1 in Gius’ paper, as of 2010 only sixteen states currently have CAP legislature in place. The southeast, for instance, has almost no CAP laws in place, the only state in that region with current CAP legislature being Florida. This is especially troublesome when we take into consideration the fact that most firearm-related suicides occur in rural areas, a descriptor that can be used to accurately describe many southeastern states.
