	If I could only summarize my education into one sentence, I would have to say my time at University has made me able to adapt to any situation I may encounter. Throughout my years in college I have been able to take classes in the major disciplines, from science and mathematics to arts and humanities. I have taken a variety of different things, and each of them has given me a chance to see people and the world through a different lens. I am flexible in my way of thinking about new things, and things different from me, because of my liberal arts education.
My first anthropology class relayed to me how humans had to adapt to their environment to survive. I learned early humans were even more reliant on their nearby environment then we are today. For most of our history, we depended on nature to put plants and animals nearby so we could eat, and we had little more than spears to acquire food and keep us going. The relationship between people and the physical world is still very important, because how we survived then guided us to our cultures and what we do with resources in the world now. This anthropology class taught me the physical world shaped us into the people we are now, and that the environment we live in shapes our cultural ideas and ways of life.
I also learned from anthropology that as we learned about the laws of nature, we could make a better living for ourselves. These ‘laws of nature’ can be found under the names of biology, microbiology, chemistry and physics, to name a few. Having taken classes in these fields I have broadened my knowledge of how the world works, and learned that this knowledge allows us to use the world’s resources more effectively. By understanding the physical world we can make more food, heal the ill, make stronger buildings and make travel easier, thereby making life better and more enjoyable for everyone. It would take too long to list all the science classes I have taken, but I think my favorite field was biology. This is because I learned the laws that people are governed by, which was the most interesting to me of all the sciences I had.  
Anthropology taught me about different cultures and ways of life beyond the Western world. I learned that cultures were based off of what was available in the environment, and helped people survive in the land they lived on. Since the world is made of different climates, people had to survive differently.  So compairing culutres is not possible and no way of life is better than another, because those ways of life were important for people to carry on. I have learned to respect other cultures and be able to see that each culture gives a unique wayof appreciating life.
Another way I learned of different cultures was being able to take two Spanish classes. Not only did I learn Spanish cultures, but I was able to learn the Spanish language. I found that although it was difficult to learn, it gave me more respect for people who know more then one language. I think knowing another language with help me in my job perspectives, since I will be able to communitcate with more people. I have also meet others and kept ties with people in the Spanish community, which has helped me to keep what I learned in the classroom with me. 
