I also learned from anthropology that as we learned about the laws of nature, we could make a better living for ourselves. These ‘laws of nature’ can be found under the names of biology, microbiology, chemistry and physics, to name a few. Having taken classes in these fields I have broadened my knowledge of how the world works, and learned that this knowledge allows us to use the world’s resources more effectively. By understanding the physical world we can make more food, heal the ill, make stronger buildings and make travel easier, thereby making life better and more enjoyable for everyone. My favorite field was biology, because I learned the laws that people are governed by, which was the most interesting to me of all the sciences I had.  
Anthropology taught me about different cultures and ways of life beyond the Western world. I learned that cultures were based off of what was available in the environment, and helped people survive in the land they lived on. Since the world is made of different climates, people had to survive differently.  So compairing culutres is not possible and no way of life is better than another, because those ways of life were important for people to carry on. I have learned to respect other cultures and be able to see that each culture gives a unique wayof appreciating life.
Another way I learned of different cultures was being able to take two Spanish classes. Not only did I learn Spanish cultures, but I was able to learn the Spanish language. I found that although it was difficult to learn, it gave me more respect for people who know more then one language. I think knowing another language with help me in my job perspectives, since I will be able to communitcate with more people. I have also meet others and kept ties with people in the Spanish community, which has helped me to keep what I learned in the classroom with me. 

	When I started college, I wasn’t really sure of what specific goals I had for myself. I decided it was important for me to go to college so I would have more opportunities when I was looking for a job. I realized, in my first semester, that I liked classes where I could learn something new about people, whether it was about the human mind or different cultures. I took classes that would allow me to learn more about human nature, and this allowed me to develop openness to new ideas and have a respect for people different from me. I feel that without a college education I would not appreciate other cultures as much, and I would only know what is in my own backyard. I think now I will be able to work better with people from many backgrounds, and this is the most important thing I could learn at University.
	  One of the classes I decided to take in my first semester after transferring to University was Abnormal Psychology. I wanted to understand more about the human mind, and I thought this would be an interesting class to take. I learned more about why people behave the way they do and that trauma is the reason for some actions. I also learned that mental illnesses are physical illnesses, and the idea that such illnesses are personality flaws is completely wrong. I have a greater understanding for people who suffer from trauma, and feel that I will treat others with more respect and try to help them if I can. I believe this class helped me be more open and caring towards others I meet in the future and to help me to fight stigma. I learned to value people more and not to judge people so quickly. 
