My degree also allowed me to learn about different cultures, and I feel this will benefit me in my chosen career. I was able to learn Spanish, which will allow me to work with a bigger pool of people. I have also taken classes that permitted me to learn and understand other ways of life, which is something I would not have otherwise experienced. This has made me more respectful of social and cultural differences and has given me a more flexible way of looking at things. All of this is why I decided I would fit best in academic advising, and having an adaptable mind will give me more ways to assist others and make dreams come true. 
Taking classes involving psychological subjects not only allowed me understand others, but made me more flexible in what I think when considering others. Becoming aware of the fact that mental illnesses are physical illnesses makes me want to do something about the stigma associated with such illnesses. Because of this knowledge, I have joined National Alliance on Mental Illness, a national non-profit that advocates for the mentally ill. I plan to support NAMI’s efforts by attending conferences, volunteering, and learning how to raise awareness and fight stigma. I have also decided to become a part of the Peace Corps in order to help others have the opportunities I have. I feel this kind of participation will be something I can look back on and feel pride in.
In sum, I think my education has given me a basis for everything I will do in the future. My degree has provided me with professional and personal goals I could not have imagined otherwise. I am grateful to have been able to gain so much knowledge of so many topics. I have a flexible and adaptable quality of mind, and now have a solid foundation for the rest of my life. I feel my life will be one that I will enjoy, and I will make considerable contributions to the world in the future because of my past.
I hope now that the reader has more insight into everything I have experienced and leanred thoughtout my academic career. I feel I have done a lot over the last few years, and am proud of my accomplishments. My time was well spent learning, growing, and succeeding in my pursues at University. I now feel ready to take on anything that comes my way, and I know I will be able to make something of myself. Everything I can do now is because I decided to get a degree, and I know that I can survive bacause of what I have done so far.


