	Being able to chose when to have children and how many has been on people’s minds since the dawn of time. Altering fertility is a norm, whether it is to increase, decrease or stop conception. Indigenous methods are made of plant and animal substances, and range from teas, pills, streams and vapors, and creams that are rubbed on. Induced abortion happens in virtually all places, and its range of acceptability goes from absolute to opposition and punishment. Reasons for abortion usually involve economic and social factors: costs, time, poverty and legitimacy to name a few. Religion is also a factor, but is less so then others, and women in places that oppose because of religion still seek abortions in spite of this. Infanticide, or killing offspring, is also widespread and includes direct and indirect methods. On the other side, new technologies like In vitro fertilization help people have children. 
	Child birth and bonding vary from place to place, from hospital or outdoor births and bonding some time after birth to immediately after birth. Once an infant is born, culture instantly starts to shape the identity of that person. Gender, a cultural construct, varies by region and can include two or three variations. Personality is also shaped by culture, with two variations being the most dominate. In agricultural places, children are more nurturing-responsible and are more caring and have great responsibly. In industrial places, children are more dependent-dominant and need more caring for by adults. 
	Though all people go through puberty, not all people have an adolescence. Western society teaches that an in-between stage is needed for people to learn the skills needed for adulthood. In contrast, many cultures have the norm to go directly from childhood to adulthood, and a ceremony initiates this change. In this case, children start to learn skills needed for life at an early age. Circumcision is necessary in many places to become a full-fledged adult as well, and can happen for men and women depending on the culture. 
	Among anthropologists sexual preference and gender identity are more culturally determined then biologically so.  Homosexual behaviors and preferences are not always looked down on, and in some places are even a necessary part of ones culture. Examples include the berdache, amazon, and hijras. Gender pluralism, or having more then two genders, allows for a intermediate gender with both feminine and masculine features. Not having sexual attraction, or asexuality, is yet another area of discussion. Identity also includes stages like being a parent, middle age years, and senior years when people prepare for the end of their lives.
	After considering the content of this chapter, I have many feelings on the above-mentioned topics. I find it interesting that religion is not the first thing people think about when deciding whether to have a child or not, and that economic factors are more important to the decision. I assume that since most religions were founded in ancient times, people feel that part of religion is outdated and that they are still doing the right thing even if it goes against their holy book. I think family planning is important, and if you can’t provide for another child there should be options available. 
