	Another class that taught me to respect people different from me was Culture and Society. This class taught me about different cultures and ways of life beyond the Western world. I learned that cultures were based on what was available in the environment and that culture helped people survive in the land they lived on. I learned people have a right to their cultures and to not be judged and that no way of life is better than another. I have learned to value other cultures and be able to see that each culture gives a unique way of appreciating life. I believe this class has helped me have more respect for others, and I think I will go much further in my career becaure of this. 
I was able to go more in depth and learn a culture different from mine by taking two Spanish classes. Not only did I learn about Spanish cultures, but I was able to learn some of the Spanish language. I think knowing another language will help me in my job prospects, since I will be able to communitcate with more people. Taking Spanish opened the door for me to meet new people I would not have otherwise and made my social circle more diverse and interesting. This helped me keep what I learned in the classroom alive and will help me be better at the career I chose later.
My time at University has been very fulfilling, and I learned things I will carry with me my whole life. I know many subjects and concepts now, but the most important things I learned are values. My education has taught me to be open to new ideas, respect all people, and appreciate other cultures. I think everything I learned helped me to become a better person, and brings me closer to the type of person I want to be. I am very thankful I had the opportunities I did, and hope I can give back to the community.

	My plans for the future have been greatly influenced by my educational encounters and have given me new ideas of what I want to do after graduation. I think the General Studies degree plan has given me a wide range of different experiences. I feel that, although my concentration was in science and mathematics, being able to take other types of classes made me aware of other passions in my life. I feel that receiving a well-rounded education will help me with my preferred profession and give me flexibility and an adaptable quality of mind. I also feel my education has given me another goal, to help others who have fewer opportunities, whether it is here or around the world. I have benefited from my time at University, and I plan to give back to other communities with the knowledge I have acquired.
	With my degree path, I have had the chance to take a variety of different classes and have studied all of the major disciplines. As my anticipated career is academic advising, having a working knowledge of the topics and concepts taught in many different classes will be valuable when helping students. Being able to gauge a student’s interests and recommend classes or help a student decide what major would fit him or her best will be much easier because of my educational background. Navigating how to complete my requirements and planning out when to take prerequisite classes for my degree gave me a taste of one of the main things I will be doing for my career. I think, after being in the college setting for so long, I will get able to adapt easily, and I feel ready to work on the other side of things now.
