Another point is the embryos being used for stem cell research are ones that are going to be thrown out anyway by fertility clinics who don’t need them, as stated by Nancy Gibbs in her article Stem Cell: the Hope and the Hype. Stem cells are used only with the permission of the donator, so it’s not like someone has no idea their embryos are being used for research. While adult and cord stem cell research is much less controversial, they do not produce as many different types of cells as embryonic research. There is also not as many stem cells found in each tissue as there are in embryonic research. 
Think of how many people there are with severe disabilities, or people that are dying from serious diseases, and how stem cell research could affect them. As explained an article entitled Positive Aspects of Stem Cell Research, with more exploration into the stem cell field, the opportunity to cure diseases like Alzheimer’s, Parkinson’s, diabetes, multiple sclerosis and spinal cord injuries becomes a real possibility. Some people care about rescuing embryos because they believe they will develop into human life, but why are they not as concerned about the people who are already in this world? Isn’t it more important to help those who have illnesses that could kill them, then to salvage embryos that are going to be thrown out and not become human anyway? 
	Today our nation is at war with terrorism, which leads to sending thousands of soldiers to other countries. Former President Bush had repeatedly said to “stay the course” with the war in Iraq when he was in office. At the same time, President Bush rejected stem cell research and banned most of this type of research because, as it states in the article Stem Cells: the Hope and the Hype, he “argue(s) that you can’t destroy life in order to save it”. If he does believe this, then why did he support the war in Iraq when so many are being killed? He thinks that these issues are very different, but by going to war, aren’t people killing others in order to save their nation’s people? As Sonia Ryang asks in her article Does it have to be hESC? “Why… should we be concerned about killing a substance whose status as a human person is inconclusive to say the least, while we kill… thousands of those that are firmly established as humans?” How can it be o.k. to let people die and not o.k. to use embryos that are not more then a few days old which could possibly heal people with a variety of problems? The type of thinking expressed by former President Bush on these two issues seems hypocritical based on Sonia Ryang’s viewpoint.
	Today Stem Cell Research is like a tug of war. On the one hand, you have the people that support it, or “Pro-choice”, on the other the people that don’t support it, or “Pro-life”, and some who are not sure or support only some of the ways stem cells are obtained. Even with all of these different opinions, it is obvious there needs to be some way that Stem Cell Research can be regulated, so that at least there are some rules to what can be done, and what is unethical to do for the majority will not be done at all. With this said, another point that can be made is that if there are to be regulations for stem cells, the government should be the one regulating through stem cell funding, and not let everything be done by private funding as the Bush Administration wanted. According to the article Bioethics on MSNBC “With funding, the field can be controlled and the results carefully monitored. Patients and donors of tissue alike will have full informed consent.”  President Obama lifted the ban on stem cell research, soon after taking office, that began during former President Bush’s term. Now new lines of stem cells can be used with federal funding after being approved by the National Institutes of Health, and approval will only take 120 days. Now with more federal funding, research will hopefully create an environment that I think will allow results of experiments to be shared better, allow research to move forward, and make the procedure of stem cell experiments more uniform and therefore the results more reproducible. 
