	In my opinion adolescence is a bad time for most people, and is not easy on the parents or children. I think adolescence is a tug-of-war in families, with the youth ready for more freedom and responsibility yet unable to attain this because of social standards. I think it must be easier where people are taught independence and skills right from the start, and that people don’t argue with others as much. People in these places are made more self-reliant and can handle life better, in my opinion. Having youth be dependent on their parents, in my opinion, makes people unable to develop more independent skills and fosters resentment in families. 
	Another topic I found interesting is the dependent-dominant personality. I feel this is a new tread in industrial countries, and was not the norm for my parents and especially my grandparents. Now days children are overly protected and technology is much more “kid-friendly” to shelter children from harm. Ordinary household items from my parents’ day would be considered too dangerous to be near kids of today, yet almost no one hurt themselves with such items. Children of past generation had more common sense, and knew better then to “stick their finger in a fan” and hurt themselves. Children had more freedom to move around and were not constantly watched by adults, and this made them more independent and reliant to take care of them. I think people of my parents and grandparents age are more nurturing-responsible, so people in industrial societies don’t always have a large number of dependent-dominate people. I think personalities are shaped a lot of the times and current standards and ways of living, and that the book only considers current times in this matter. 
	Overall I found this chapter insightful and interesting. I liked how the book took a neural view of the information, and provided facts and reasons for different ways of life. I felt I was not drawn to agree with one thing over another, and found that I did not always agree with how things were considered in Western societies. I think reading the chapter gave me more awareness of how different things are for other people. I feel I understand more about human development and can better appreciate things different from me.
	
