The Brazilian state was reshaped when working and middle classes entered as political actors; hundreds of thousands were employed by public firms and the development of the country was transformed.
In spite of this, there was still a rather large debt that was incurred, many individuals without a job still couldn’t find work because the new jobs required semi-skilled or skilled laborers, and there was mass inflation.  Japan was able to build a modern industrial economy by using an approach called the industrial policy.

After this, the economy opened to other countries which resulted in rapid economic growth, but also major inequality growth.  This all being considered, Japan has been the most successful in governing their economy in order to create economic growth as the number of impoverished individuals and the inequalities within the country hasn’t drastically increased along with the economic growth (despite the current halt).
The welfare state of Brazil is rather deficient; social inequalities (to be more specific, the staggering socioeconomic inequality) are rampant within the country and a very small portion of the gross domestic product, or GDP for short, is allocated to welfare.  There are some programs that have been set in place to provide assistance with health and children’s education in the form of grants allotted to impoverished families (Bolsa Familia) and a social security plan which increased the retirement age, passed limits on the benefit ceilings, and taxed pensions/benefits, however there’s still much left to be desired.  Approximately a meager 25% of the GDP is actually utilized for healthcare and education.  Many individuals don’t even receive the benefits that they should be getting because of frivolous waste, unbridled corruption, and clientelism (an exchange in order for political support), not to mention that the federal government doesn’t consider those who have jobs within the informal sector to even be employed.  The vast majority of benefits are received by formal sector workers who are salaried, however over 70% of income transfers are “retirement benefits that go to middle-class and upper-class individuals” while those of strikingly low socioeconomic status receive a strikingly inadequate 1.5% of funds.
The welfare state of India is comparably worse than that of Brazil’s.  It’s based on the Anglo-Saxon and utterly dominated by intense corruption and misdirection.  The middle class may be large, but roughly three hundred million to five hundred million individuals living in India are among the poorest in the world.  They lack access to electricity or running water, existing on less than one measly dollar per day (translating to 70 rupees) and education amongst the poor is severely lacking and literacy rates are reflective of this in many regions (in some areas, illiteracy rates are as high as 90%).  In many areas, home to a collective 750 million, economic growth is hindered by lack of infrastructures such as electricity or roads that are paved, and food that is intended for the poor is frequently stolen.  For example, in Bihar 80% of food that is meant to be distributed to the poor is, for the most part, stolen.  Japan is strikingly different regarding its welfare state.  The unemployment rate in the country is surprising low, at a mere 3%, however the rate of relative poverty is roughly 40%.  It should be noted, however, that relative poverty is the number of households that have an income that’s lower than 60% of the median income.  They supply universal healthcare as well as both unemployment insurance and social security and certainly don’t have the sheer volume of individuals of low-socioeconomic status that Brazil or India has.
