When looking at the 2017 Terrorist Attacks Map and the 2018 Terrorist Attacks Map, there are a multitude of differences that are quite apparent (and some similarities as well).  Both of these maps illustrate the location in which a terrorist attack occurred, as well as identify the perpetrator group responsible for said attacks.  In addition, they mark the number of fatalities and the number of attacks that occurred for their respective year---here is, of course, the biggest difference.  Aside from the overall numbers, the locations of terrorist attacks changed as did the groups who were responsible for them.
	In 2017, there were fourteen terrorist attacks in the United States resulting in a total of eighteen deaths and two attacks in Canada with six fatalities, however in 2018 there have been no terrorist attacks in the United States or Canada as of yet.  As to be expected, the majority of these attacks were committed by either an unknown group or groups other than Al-Qaeda, Al-Shabaab, Boko Haram, Islamic State, PKK, and Taliban, though the largest attack, which resulted in eight fatalities, was committed by the Islamic State.  Unlike the United States and Canada, from one year to the next the number of terrorist attacks in Colombia has remained relatively similar.  There has certainly been a slight decrease in 2018, but the attacks are still clustered in the same areas (ex. north of Bucaramanga).  In 2017, the attacks in South America were primarily perpetrated by unknown groups and groups other than the aforementioned ones, but in 2018, the number of attacks by unknown groups decreased!  Unlike in 2017, in 2018 there have been no attacks in Argentina, but there has been an attack in Bolivia.  Overall, the number of attacks has decreased in both North America and South America.
	 There were attacks in Finland, Norway, Sweden, Germany, Ukraine, and Poland in 2017 however none of these countries had any attacks in 2018 according to the maps.  The majority of attacks in Europe were committed by the Islamic State, Al-Qaeda, or groups other than Al-Shabaab, Boko Haram, Islamic State, PKK, and Taliban.  Rather unexpectedly, the attack from Al-Qaeda occurred in 2018; there were no attacks in Europe from this group in 2017.  There was a drastic decrease in attacks from one year to the next, as noted by the map, though many of the areas where they occurred are still similar.  Australia, on the other hand, went from having no attacks in 2017 to having one in 2018 from the Islamic State.
