The current system that is in place is both complex and overpriced, not to mention lacking in efficiency.  Between private health care providers and a multitude of insurance companies it’s hardly short of a maze in terms of navigating.  These difficulties lead to a plethora of problems such as lack of ability to afford treatment, little to no access to general care, lack of health management (specifically regarding treatment of chronic diseases), waste of supplies, and lack of coordination between providers of insurance and health care.  By creating an institution such as NHS many of these problems would be eliminated.  Standardization would allow for virtually no deviation of the cost of a treatment and would provide a pricing cap so that the cost of medication isn’t exorbitant.  As a result of this, many people would begin to seek preventative services.  This would decrease the mortality rate, increase the lifespan of Americans, delay the onset of a chronic illness, prevent disease, and could actually save money by identifying/eliminating diseases in the early-stage.  In addition, NHS would be extremely beneficial to doctors and nurses.  Rather than being concerned about a patient’s ability to afford a life-saving treatment such as chemotherapy, being unable to call an ambulance to transport a patient from a primary care facility to a hospital because they can’t afford it, watching someone die from a preventable disease, or not being able to order necessary tests/checks, they can focus all of their attention on the patient without regard to cost, the hassle with insurance companies, etc.  They can easily order a multitude of tests or panels to be run, call an ambulance for emergency transport, provide preventative care, refer patients to specialists knowing that they’ll be able to get seen, write prescriptions for the best-fitting medication, and provide life-saving treatments.
	While this institute could work in the U.S. just as it does abroad, there are admittedly some changes that would have to be handled prior to its founding.  Many of the privatized health care facilities and the insurance providers would have to be eliminated or nationalized---here is an undeniable excess of health insurance providers throughout the country and the need for them would be drastically reduced.  In addition, general taxes would have to increase in order to support or provide extra funding for free health care.  With many Americans already pushing for something similar to the National Health Service, it’s entirely possible that it could become a reality in the United States.  Increasing public health, allowing physicians to focus solely on their patients’ care, reducing business costs associated with providing insurance to employees, decreasing the overall mortality rate, eliminating the majority of paperwork associated with a general doctor or hospital visit, cutting down administrative costs, standardizing medical practices, and providing equal access to health care for all people are just a few of the many reasons that this institute should be implemented and each of these aforementioned benefits are examples of the great success this program would have.
