India has a smaller population of females than males, however it’s easy to see that society favors males (females have lower literacy rates, nutrition levels, and survival rates of infants).  Representation of women in parliament has increased from a mere 4% to 11%, as there’s a great deal of bias against female candidates.  Women and minorities are both less likely to gain support in politics, receive little to no education, and be impoverished. Brazil is patriarchal and thus expects women to produce income, balance traditional household roles, and perform duties as a mother, though there are several organizations that are vying for political awareness regarding gender.  Minorities are often disenfranchised, but race is rather subjective as Brazilians (particularly Afro-Brazilians) have a plethora of different racial categories that they use to refer to themselves, though the poor are primarily black and rich are white..  In Japan women tend to be as highly educated as men, however there are severe gender gaps; women constitute three-quarters of the non-regular workers in the country and are paid roughly half as much as men and their primary duty is to be a homemaker.  It wasn’t until 1947 that women became active participants in politics as voters, but nowadays Japan is still lagging in gender equality and women are extremely disenfranchised in politics.  The country is extremely homogeneous and there are very little provisions for, or sensitivity in regards to, ethnic minorities; they have little to no political experience in the country, as there’s an extreme lack of support.  There’s a great deal of hesitancy from the Japanese regarding minorities and they are less likely to be hired within the country.
Among Japan, Brazil, and India, Brazil’s democracy is the healthiest.  Social issues revolving around gender and race are tackled in the country, allowing for more diversity among elected official and running candidates.  Their multiparty system represents a wider range of ideologies (right, left, center-right, and center-left) and the elections are done via open-list proportional representation.  Voters being able to cross party lines and have more discretion in voting for candidates seems like a problem to some, however it essentially eliminates bias that voters have simply because of party association and gives them the ability to focus solely on the candidate and their policies.  In addition to this, the autonomy allocated to states by constitutionally guaranteed funds which serves as a way to separate powers and implement another form of check and balance (this is especially useful for Brazil, which is a highly diverse country).
