If there really is one “magical” elixir, one miraculous life-giving source, one “fountain of youth”, we all have amazingly easy access to it. It’s something we’ve never had to look far to acquire, and you don’t have to be wealthy to attain it. In fact, this special resource is free and we don’t even need to leave the house to reap its life-sustaining, life-enhancing and life-changing benefits. We all have it easily and readily available to us every day, all day, no matter where we might be. It’s called water.
If that’s not enough, and you need just one really good, solid, logical reason to drink water every day, it is this fact: it keeps you alive! Water is so very necessary to us because we are mostly made of it. If you are not replacing the very resource that you are made of, what is being used by the natural and automatic process of existing –– your entire physical and mental being (you!)  is at risk. It is no exaggeration that water is a source of life and survival. It can literally make the difference between life and death. It is a personal responsibility for every human, based on various factors such as age, gender and location, to consume the daily amount of water needed to not just survive, but to thrive.

Not only does water keep your entire body – down to your cells - functioning properly every single second of the day, but it is also a solution to many common things that ail you. If you suffer from headaches, grogginess and tiredness, fuzzy thinking, or keeping your weight in check (to name but just a few frustrations that it can cure), start drinking the daily requirements of water. It is an essential resource for overall health and well-being.
Every person should be drinking six to eight cups of water daily. What does making this a daily habit do for you? First of all, when your body signals to you that you are thirsty, which is the body’s way of anticipating – and staving off – dehydration, that first drink of water is immediately refreshing and relieving. Right away, your brain, via your taste buds, is signaled that help (water) is on the way to feed the thirsty cells. It then slowly gets processed throughout your body.
Even just a 1 – 2 % loss of the body’s water can impair cognitive ability and performance. If you’re feeling sluggish or foggy, drink a full glass of water! Feeling mental and/or physical fatigue is often a result of not drinking enough water (not the result of not drinking enough coffee!) and naturally perks you up and gets you energized. And did you know that your brain can actually get a little confused at times, alerting you that you are hungry when it should really be letting you know it’s just thirsty? If you’re starting to get a little munchy, try a glass of water first, before reaching for food. It can help you with the feeling of hunger, and on the same token, can help suppress your appetite just before a meal so that you don’t eat as much. On that note, the more water you drink daily, the better your digestive system works to keep things regular and moving along at a steady pace, and your kidneys will have an easier time of flushing out toxins from your blood stream.
