I jumped in – an hour here and an hour there over the course of a couple of weeks – and ended up making almost $50. That’s not fireworks-worthy earnings, but this was at the basic level of work as a beginner, it proved to me that what this site offered was legitimate and it was actual money in my bank account that I would not have had otherwise. It’s also easily repeatable. Imagine putting in 20 or more hours a week!  The critics can keep complaining while I learn and earn. It’s even fun at times.  Eric Limer from Gizmodo.com shares “…it's a relatively fun way to make a couple bucks playing around on the internet…should you sign up and try it? Definitely.”
Earning at mturk.com is convenient and flexible, especially when you cannot easily leave the house or follow a set schedule for various reasons.  Brynne Conroy, from Magnifymoney.com says, ““For some, Amazon Mechanical Turk provides a way to bring in extra money when there seems to be no other alternative. …these people…view the flexibility and low obligation of mTurk as positives that outweigh the very real negative of low pay.”
If you are a worker who has proven to follow directions and provide quality work, it is possible to get hired on with a company that uses Mturk to offer tasks. A commenter at Gizmodo.com stated: “I actually ended up getting employed for a while by the company that was putting the HITs online and was able to double my pay rate.”
“You’re also more likely to be approached for private contract work,” agrees Brynne Conroy, from Magnifymoney.com. “If you spend a lot of time turking, you’ll start to see some higher-paying jobs…that pay around $9-$25 per hour.”
Working from home actually saves you money. The money saved from expenses such as car maintenance and gas, lunches or coffee, wardrobe, and any other miscellaneous purchases people make when they leave the house adds up. Despite the minimum wage outcry some workers of mturk.com make, do they also consider that working outside of the home at minimum wage ends up making them what could have been made on Mturk without all of the added fuss? As a minimum wage employee and after all expenses (and your time), is it really worth leaving home? What does that take-home pay really turn out to be? Not minimum wage. 
But maybe for those eager to learn how to make Mturk pay off, the people spending time complaining is a good thing - a little less competition for the higher paying tasks! Mturk.com is a viable resource for those times when you are short on cash or soon will be and instead of having nothing to show for the several hours of mindlessly watching tv, playing video games or jumping from one online thing to another, heading over to Mturk to make some quick cash is worth it.  
