     One of the most common ways in which libraries receive various kinds of support is through friend groups, commonly called Friends of the Library (FOTL). Sally Gardener Reed, the executive director of United for Libraries, points out that FOTL most often provide monetary gifts, volunteers, program support, and advocacy for their local institution. In a time where funding for libraries is often reduced or questioned, all sources of support—including FOTL—should be considered essential to continued operation. However, though FOTL organizations do provide positive fundraising and encouragement for libraries, these organizations cannot be considered as a stable source of income for budgeting purposes. 
	It must first be established that perhaps the ideal library to institute a Friends organization is a public library with a relatively well-populated town from which to draw support. Though academic libraries do often institute FOTL groups, the difference in patron composition plays a role in accumulating said support. D’Andraia, Fitzpatrick, and Oliver argue that since today’s students prefer seeking information online versus visiting the physical library, future fundraising groups in academic libraries may find it difficult to draw in support based on those students’ lack of relationship with the library itself. Therefore, for the purposes of discussing such groups as increasing revenue, FOTL is being considered mainly in the context of public libraries. 
	One of the main advantages of having a FOTL is that the organizations often provide money for items not accounted for when planning the annual budget. The funds are not typically used for operational expenses such as utilities or staff salaries, rather any money given by the Friends can be used for the sake of growth and development. For instance, the Friends of the San Antonio Public Library in San Antonio, Texas, has been successful in donating $50,000 to its library since 1994. That money has been used to support projects such as a campaign for the construction of a branch library, the establishment of a Book Cellar shop, and the creation of the local Arts and Letters award. Such projects are beyond the normal operational expenses of the library but this additional support makes the growth possible. 
	Having a FOTL organizations helps to establish a common ground between the library and its outside community. These organizations are often comprised of local persons interested in the wellbeing of the library as an institution and the community input into decision-making processes. Often, this strengthened community bond can work in financial favor—such as when the San Antonio friends, mentioned above, successfully campaigned for the city to sponsor a new library building. In other instances, the Friends can provide funds to the community in a way to support the library. For example, the Friends of the Library at the University of Wisconsin-Madison provides a Grants to Scholars program in which visiting scholars to the school can apply for funds for research. Such funding programs may not be in the budget for the library itself; but the Friends support of the community in such funding encourages more patronage not only to the library but the overall institution itself. 
