One of my reasons for taking this course is my lack of knowledge about Indigenous cultures. I currently work as a circulation assistant at a public library in the Midwest. The patrons that I interact with on a daily basis are generally white college students and community members. But I know that I will not always be in this specific position and my work in the future may involve important aspects of librarianship such as collection development, special collections, and community partnerships. For that reason, I thought that it would prove beneficial to take this course. Although some aspects of the material and assignments have been challenging, they have been beneficial to my understanding.
	On the surface, the assignment for creating the subject guide seemed pretty straight-forward and simple. I expected the most difficult part of the assignment to be the actual creation of the LibGuide as it is a platform of which I have little practice. Unfortunately, the most difficult aspect of the subject guide was the actual finding and collection of resources. My group members and I originally wanted to focus on community services for an Indigenous community. Our library of choice, the Nisqually Tribal Library, offers many services for its community ranging from education to health services. This focus was found to be too broad so we changed it to simply being about family services. With a more specific topic, however, the opportunity for finding resources diminished drastically. 
	 I looked for family service resources by utilizing scholarly practices and methods. But no matter the search terms, I could not find appropriate journal articles on the subject. I used the Nisqually library’s catalog to try and find helpful books but only found a handful. Most of the resources that I found on the subject were websites of organizations, funds, and associations. The parameter of “family services” also had to be extended to include topics that are loosely connected to the term such as taxes and housing. The guide, therefore, does not provide general information as much as it provides specific pathways for obtaining certain family services. 
	It is perhaps most appropriate that the guide does not link to journal articles and books. The intended patrons of the Nisqually library are limited to what that library can offer. One of the challenges of being an Indigenous library is the issue of funding. Such libraries may not be able to afford database subscriptions or an extensive book collection. Instead, what funding that is available is going to go into more necessary and central services. In an ideal world, the access to such information would be available to all patrons but funding severely limits the access for many.
	The resources that were included on the guide were of a wide-range of organizations and grants aimed at helped Indigenous peoples. Unfortunately, many of these organizations are administrated by non-Indigenous employees. So although the goal of said resources is to aid Indigenous populations, it is done in a way that is developed and administered by non-Indigenous people. Beneficial Indigenous librarianship involves cooperation and integration of Indigenous individuals; perhaps beneficial Indigenous services should include those elements, as well. 
