	In my years of working at public libraries, I have been amazed by the number of individuals that have not been able to keep up with the advancement of technology. Society seems to think that it is only older adults that have problems with basic computer functions—but in my experience, the many individuals that have difficulty with technology come from all ages and all cultures. For those coming from minority cultures, technology literacy is a definite issue. I am glad to see, therefore, that IKCs exist since they will do much to keep Indigenous individuals on a level playing field in a technology-focused world. 
	Another initiative that is promising in indigenous librarianship is digital repatriation. In this practice, indigenous materials and information are being given back to the original communities via online access. Ethically, this seems to be a feasible solution to the appropriation of indigenous materials. But this digitization requires many facets to be beneficial: community members need Internet access, the community center or library needs to either host the digital materials or pay for subscription access to a database, and there needs to be technology if local information wants to be digitized. To this extent, local public libraries could step in and assist the community. Perhaps this would be an acceptable partnership, to allow indigenous individuals to work on digitizing their own material all the while the library provides the technology. 
	Finally, a third practice that can be applied to indigenous librarianship is the preservation of indigenous languages in online communities. The physical boundaries of a village or reservation no longer bind many indigenous communities. Thanks to colonization and the dislocation of Indigenous peoples, one community may have members across one country. By utilizing online social media and communities, such members can aid in the preservation of their culture. Once something is online, it is saved forever. Librarians can aid in the preservation of indigenous language, then, by helping to preserve webpages and communities that speak in the native language and are about native concepts. 
	In many ways, the connection of Indigenous peoples in an online community is quite similar to the process of doing a degree online. My peers are from locations all over the world and yet we can come together in a shared environment to interact, learn, and discuss our viewpoints. I think that having such experience would be beneficial for serving Indigenous peoples in this digital world as such library students know the challenges of trying to communicate long distance about shared ideas. Overall, though, these practices that incorporate technology into indigenous communities are unique in their characteristics and show ways in which these cultures strive to survive in the present day. 
	As I stated earlier in this reflection, I do not currently work in a position that interacts with Indigenous peoples on a regular basis. But as a future librarian, I want to be fully prepared for any scenario that may come my way in the future. After graduating with the M.L.I.S. degree in December, I hope to gain employment full-time as a librarian in my area. Although I do not currently live in an area with a large indigenous population, I still think that I should use the concepts learned in this course to further an accurate representation and respect of Indigenous peoples. 
