Most people have never heard of a town called Titusville. It sits in the midst of Florida’s eastern Space Coast, surrounding by towns that receive far more glory: Orlando, Port Canaveral, Port St. John. For years, Titusville was seen as a tourist attraction, a place that allowed for the perfect view of NASA’s space shuttle launches. Upon the demise of the space shuttle program, Titusville began a long but quick descent into becoming nothing more than just another small coastal Florida town. While the rest of the nation may never hear of Titusville nor ever care about what goes on in this diminishing town, the residents that call Titusville home have never been more concerned about their community. In this spirit, a Facebook group entitled Titusville, FL...the TRUTH about what’s happening? was created in 2014. Since its creation, thousands of users with an interest in Titusville have joined this closed group; the residents have found their place for discussion and news in this virtual information community. 
	At first glance, this may seem like quite the unlikely information community. After all, it requires no physical location, limited physical resources, and is open to anyone that holds an interest. But according to Durrance and Fisher’s characteristics of what makes an information community, Titusville, FL more than fits the description. First, the group is a place where information can be shared. Each day, users create new posts asking for information or even willingly supplying information. Thanks to the sharing capabilities of the Facebook platform, these users are able to then spread that information out even further. Second, this community was formed around the information needs of its users. Titusville residents were looking for a way in which to discuss their community and stay current on local events. This information is likewise presented in a way that is helpful and efficient to the group’s users. Third, this community encourages collaboration amongst its users. Residents of all ages, of all ethnicities, of all backgrounds, and even of all locations are allowed within the closed group as long as they have an interest in the town. All users are given equal opportunity to speak up and be heard; furthermore, the administrators of the group are quick to squash any dissent or bullying amongst group members. Fourth, the information community removes the barriers that come with trying to acquire needed services. The technology-based platform allows for information to be equally shared. And fifth, this community helps to inspire members to feel connected within a larger community. In this case, how this works is quite apparent: these are members of a larger community in the physical world that are looking for more connection via the online world. The Titusville, FL group administrators even host events in which members can attend and meet their fellow online members. In all ways that make an information community, this group proves itself to be one that works quite well. 
	In a world where technology is increasingly taking over various aspects of daily life, it is certain that such virtual information communities are going to become commonplace. One of the biggest causes of such a trend comes from the fact that the Internet makes information seeking easier for the individual. The Internet is “an omnibus channel that complements (and, in part, replicates) the usual array of interpersonal and mass media sources of information”. This makes it more efficient for a user to not only satisfy their information need but it also allows for better connection with those holding similar needs. In a virtual group with shared information needs, “managers of virtual groups are able to configure team structures based on the best set of available skills regardless of the location of the individuals”. In these similar-minded virtual communities, the more efficient groups are the ones that utilize each user’s individual skills and information knowledge to achieve their needs. 
