The spontaneous emergence and development of cyberspace reflexivity turned the Web into something like a global brain, a kind of collective transdisciplinary intelligence that uninterruptedly creates new knowledge, as well as new social rules, beliefs, values, and norms. The on-going interaction and interdependence enables human minds and groups to fruitfully interconnect to each other in and through a self-expressive anonymous thinking collective, which is unified in its vast diversity and made possible through the fluid, unstable and speedy cyberspace.
Individuals contributing their information therefore add to the variety of information accessible to individuals on the Internet. This perhaps may explain the popularity of information communities such as the Titusville, FL group. When an individual has an information need, there is this assumption that the Internet holds all of the answers and would therefore be the ideal place to express that need. Users, therefore, utilize the Titusville, FL information community not only to get answers to their questions but also to (perhaps unknowingly) contribute their own knowledge to the vast “global brain” that is the Internet. 
	As a result of the role reversal in which users contribute their own information, information professionals should perhaps look to better the quality of these online collaborative services. It is suggested that one method to improve the quality of SQA websites is to make it a hybrid between SQA and virtual reference services, perhaps taking questions with low quality answers from the SQA page to the virtual reference service. In the instance of the Titusville, FL information community, this could mean teaming up with the Titusville Public Library and directing group members to their reference services if they find that their information need was not fully satisfied. Another solution would be for information professionals to provide more instruction to individuals on how to accurately access information on their own in the online environment. It has been found that individuals—students in particular—often have difficulty in synthesizing information that they find in the research process. Therefore, if information professionals can find a better way to help not only students but individuals to better find, understand, and then apply the information that they encounter or retrieve, then information communities such as this one can benefit from the addition of concrete and credible information. 
	Overall, there are three major findings that I encountered while researching the Titusville, FL information community. Not only is there the issue of having some community members that have more power than others but there is a selective qualification for what information is deemed worthy to be expressed in the online community. Community members rely mostly on asking their own questions and answering those of others, often with little outside sources for support. These users often take on the role of information professional themselves and add their own contributions to the Internet’s overall knowledge base. 
