	Mainly, I think that it would be worthwhile to fully evaluate materials that I think should be part of the library’s collection. Especially in an area with few Indigenous citizens, the materials that go into the collection should be an accurate depiction and an authoritative account of indigenous history, values, and mythologies. I would also like to follow the guidelines that are explained by Doris Seale, Beverly Slapin and Rosemary Gonzales in the creation of a culturally appropriate children’s collection. The premise that I would like to put faith in is that if children are exposed to accurate materials, then they will grow and perpetuate those accurate representations. 
	Should I find myself working near an Indigenous population, I would like to either assist that community in creating its own library or by implementing protocols similar to that of the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Library, Information and Resource Network, Inc. Particularly, I would like to create a small collection with a focus on Native American authors, histories, and religions, while working with a Native American librarian or authoritative figure to develop said collection. I have worked in libraries with small collections on LGBT, African-American, and Latino-American cultures. Those collections were regularly browsed by curious white patrons; I would hope that a similar collection on Native Americans would help to further accurate representations. 
	In conclusion, I took this course in order to expand my knowledge in an area of which I have little knowledge—I was not disappointed. I now not only feel better prepared to serve indigenous cultures as a librarian but I also feel more aware as a consumer of media fraught with inaccurate stereotypes and depictions. I hope to use the knowledge that I gained to help in the representation of Indigenous peoples and also to apply the same principles to representations of other cultures. We may be far from an ideal world in which all cultures receive the same regard, but I hope to do my part to further the equal and fair treatment of the minority cultures, including those that are indigenous.	
