	The final concept crucial to the exploration of the Titusville, FL information community is that of social question and answer (SQA). ChaCha and Yahoo! Answers are the commonly known SQA communities and have some research done into their usage. It has been found that “users who are motivated by emotional and social support expect quick responses from other users”. This shows the reliance that many users put into such information communities. Research into the motivations of SQA use find that users use such sites for a few key reasons: “to receive more information/alternative perspective on a topic, to socialize and interact with others, and to receive personalized answers tailored to meet a specific information need”. Shah et. al.’s work ties in greatly with the use of such communities for information seeking. Collaboration, also a facet of SQA, has been shown to be important, too. In a different study, Shah asserts that “ultimately Q&A services are for the users who not only care about good and fast information, but also need a fun and easy way to interact with the system”. This shows that not only is collaboration between users in a group—but also between a user and the platform itself. Lastly, reciprocity plays an important role in SQA. The more effort that a user in these communities puts into answering the questions of others, the more likely others will answer that user’s own questions. 
	There are a few weaknesses and gaps that occur within the scholarly research. The first, explained earlier, is that parts of other information must be pieced together to study the Facebook group information community. The second deals with the issue of information equality. It is ascertained that virtual communities support the equal access of information for all users. However, the nature of the closed Facebook group is that only those allowed into the group are allowed to see the information provided by the community. This runs counter to the assertion that virtual communities help with allowing information access to all. And third, there is much research into the motivations of members when a reward system is in place for supplying information for others. In communities, such as the Titusville, FL information community, there is no explicit reward system stated—how do these motivations change when there is no such system in place?
Since there is such a lack of research conducted on this particular type of information community, I had to devise a research plan that focuses on different characteristics of this community. I decided to begin by looking at the various aspects that make this community unique: its Facebook platform, its members-only information status, and most importantly, the types of interactions between its members. From there, I started by searching in the Library Literature and Information Science Full Text database as accessed through the King Library’s resources. I focused in on those key search terms and found some scholarly literature in that manner. 
	I also utilized some resources available through my undergraduate university, Ball State University. I checked out various books relating to internet communities, information seeking, and virtual interactions. Since virtual communication is clearly one aspect of such information communities, I also used the school’s subscription to Communication and Mass Media Complete, from which I also found scholarly sources. 
