	The main way in which I accessed community-based resources was to keep current on the posts and events happening on the Titusville, FL group page. This is the only online presence for the group and therefore contains all of the group’s specific literature. Each day promised new material being posted on this group and I read all of it carefully as to keep up with the issues at hand. Often, the very rules and practices of the information community were brought up as an issue. For instance, one of the administrators recently posted that there were too many business advertisements in the group. She writes: “Businesses are only allowed to advertise one time per week here. All others will be deleted”. What followed in the comments was a discussion from group members on what exactly was being allowed. In keeping close tabs on the group’s activity, I was able to learn more about its inner functioning. 
	One of the major findings that I had when examining the Titusville, FL information community was that individuals can experience a power struggle within information communities. The scholarly research points to information communities being a place in which all information is shared equally. However, within the Titusville, FL information community, there is an inherent issue with power of what kinds of information is being shared. The administrators of this group, namely Christine Roy, keep a tight hold on what kinds of information can and cannot be shared on the group. For instance, the group’s rules states that members must “refrain from posting items to buy, sell, or [in search of]. We are NOT a buy/sell/trade group. This includes yard sales”. So right away, the types of information is limited to what these individuals see as fit. Posts have been deleted if they do not fit this criteria. Any user within this information community therefore cannot always satisfy their information needs in this group even if it is related to the topic of Titusville. 
	There is an important observation to be made about the information seeking in the Titusville, FL information community: these are individuals relying solely on the social question and answer format for their information seeking behaviors. For the most part, they are not professionals with access to databases or other traditional informational sources. Rather, they rely on their own experiences and knowledge to provide information. I have found that this is not actually a negative thing; in fact, many of the information needs within this community do not require such scholarly sources. For example, Paula Burge posted the following: “I’m new to the area and my insurance will cover the following family doctors…Anything anyone can tell me about any of them[?]”. The answers that followed were not reviews from medical websites but instead the personal experiences from locals. Although the information science field values sources that are credible, current, and scholarly in nature, these sources are not always what are needed in information communities. 
This leads to an interesting shift that has essentially happened in such communities. Instead of coming to information professionals for their information seeking needs, these communities have placed their very users into the role of information professionals. In fact, it is seen that the general mass of knowledge that users pour into the Internet as a whole deems it to be a collective of information. 
