	Another limitation of using traditional library tools and practices is that the standard classification systems do not adequately express the terms and ideas of indigenous culture. The basic classification systems are products of the dominant white culture and often reduce Indigenous people to being classified as history, which implies that the cultures are no longer relevant. There are some efforts being made to combat this limitation. For instance, librarian Brian Deer has created a classification system that is being used by Indigenous libraries.
	Implementing such a system is not very practical for existing libraries, however. In order to fully integrate such classifications, a cataloguer would need to re-classify and re-catalog a large number of materials. Public librarians especially are already overworked and understaffed; this would be a big imposition to take on such extra work. Perhaps if Indigenous individuals could be trained in cataloguing easily, then cooperation could be possible to get the task done. 
	If an Indigenous classification system is to be implemented, though, then it is only ethical to incorporate classification systems from all cultures. Although it would be fair to all cultures, this would be a cumbersomely large system to use. This brings up a question: is there a point where a classification system becomes too specific for accessible use? And how much work would it take to even come up with a system that incorporates all cultures? Once again, the ideal scenario is not very obtainable in the practical sense. 
	These two limitations are but some of the issues concerning Indigenous librarianship using traditional library tools. Despite the challenges, there has been some promising practices in the representation of Indigenous peoples and librarianship. 
	When considering indigenous cultures, it is evident that the development of modern technology has had both a negative and positive effect. As Dr. Rachael Ka’ai-Mahuta explains in her talk for Born Digital 2016, technology has helped the spread of problems such as language domination and cultural appropriation; however, technology has also done much to connect indigenous communities and information. Within the context of librarianship, there are a few promising practices that librarians can utilize in order to support the growth of respect for indigenous cultures. 
	Technology has inspired the growth of Indigenous Knowledge Centers, which allow individuals of indigenous communities to not only learn basic technological skills but also to have access to vital materials as related to their culture. These centers work in similar ways to libraries in providing such access to information. Librarians, therefore, would be beneficial in such settings in coordination with indigenous information specialists. 
	These centers seem to be an ideal resource for indigenous communities. Not only do they provide archives of information but they also provide essential services for the community. For instance, the Hope Vale IKC provides activities for children outside of school. However, such places need funding to exist. A librarian in such a setting would no doubt need to be knowledgeable about applying for grants and maintaining a budget that can be supported by such funds. Additionally, a librarian would need to figure out how such a center would fit into the larger education system in the area. 
