	Another important advantage to having a FOTL organization is that it allows for fundraising while sparing the main library staff. Many Friends host book sales at least once per year; the preparation needed for this event would prove detrimental if placed directly in the hands of library staff as this would need to be done on top of normal responsibilities. By having a separate organization in charge, money can be raised by individuals who require no staffing expense and no formal training. Virtually all money gained through FOTL fundraising efforts is a profit to the library, even if the FOTL takes a portion upon agreement. 
	These advantages make FOTL seem like a beneficial addition to a library; however, such organizations cannot be held accountable as a steady source of revenue. Fundraising efforts are always dependent on the outside conditions of the event, some of which are unforeseeable or unavoidable. The West Lafayette Public Library in West Lafayette, Indiana, just had its Spring Book Fair. The last book fair, held in the Fall, had an exceedingly well turnout of patrons and managed to raise around $10,000 for the library; this book fair did not see as many patrons and did not do as well in bringing in funds. It was determined that the event was held during a busy weekend and so patrons may have decided to participate elsewhere. This is but one example of how outside factors play a role in fundraising. FOTL funds should not be included in the annual library budget for this reason. 
	 Purchases made with funds donated by the FOTL may have to be approved not only by the library director but also with the Friends organization itself. Often, Friends have separate by-laws and guidelines to which its organization follows. Any proposed purchases made with the funding given by the organization would have to follow its purposes and goals. Many FOTL organizations publish their meeting minutes online and the public can see their approvals or disapprovals of purchases being made for their library or group itself. The Friends of the Timothy C. Hauenstein Reynolds Township Library has meeting minutes that include the approval of funds to purchase adult door prizes for summer reading, for instance. This shows funding that is coming from the Friends but being used for the library and its patrons. It is essential that the library and the FOTL are on the same page when it comes to finances. 
	Generally, the amount of work that goes into creating, organizing, and supporting a FOTL organization does not amount to a lot of money being generated for the library. The Friends of the Grand County Public Library in Colorado, for instance, raised $40,000 for the institution in March 2017. However, when looking at the library’s official budget, it estimated a total of approximately $2.4 million (Grand County Library, 2017). In perspective, that money seems like a large amount to be fundraised for one institution over one year. The reality is that is only a fraction of revenue compared to what the library will see coming from other sources. 
	In conclusion, it is true that FOTL organizations are an excellent way to keep interaction with the local community and an efficient way to raise supplemental funds for the library, no matter how small or insignificant the contribution. Though, perhaps FOTL should be regarded as more of a community organization and less of a fundraising organization. With funding efforts that can be easily influenced and a membership that depends on the activity of the community, these groups do not bode well as a source of revenue. It is best, therefore, that libraries establish their Friends groups to keep a local sense of support—but to find viable sources of revenue elsewhere. 
