Frankenstein is a horror, thriller, drama film made in America. It is in black and white, directed by James Whale. The film was released on November 21, 1931 by Universal Pictures. It stars Colin Clive, Mae Clarke, Boris Karloff, Edward Van Sloan, Fredrick Ferr and Dwight Frye. While never garnering many major awards, it was a huge success with the audience and critics alike. It’s become an iconic horror film and spawned multiple sequels throughout the years as well. 
Frankenstein follows the story of Henry Frankenstein a young scientist living in a European village, alongside his assistant Fritz, who happens to be a hunchback. The two are collecting body parts as Frankenstein aspires to create life out of electrical devices that he had perfected over the years. His fiancée, Elizabeth, is worried about him as he’s been acting strange lately and acting weird. Victor Mortiz and Elizabeth go to Dr. Waldman, Frankenstein’s old medical professor, to ask him why he might be acting this way. Waldman informs them that he dropped and has been working on creating life. The three then travel up to Frankenstein’s watch towhee r to confront the doctor. The doctor lets them in and proceeds to show them his experiment. The perfect storm was occurring as his electrical machine shocked the body that he created. Little do they know that Frankenstein’s creation would wreak havoc upon them soon.
 
The artistic choices in Frankenstein were fun. The biggest artistic choice that I liked was having Frankenstein’s monster being more than just your average monster. Once the monster is shown on screen he is portrayed a confused man, who has been revived and is learning again. Yes, he had an “evil” brain, but he was also a confused as to why he was alive again. You see him being tortured, reminding him why his was bad and making him kill again. You also have the scene with the little girl, where he shows compassion and understanding. He played with the little girl before eventually reverting and throwing her in the water. He was played with an emotional twist that people would never expect.
The camera angle and choices in Frankenstein were alright. There were a lot of long shots and panning shots of rooms. They had panning scene where Fritz stole the “rotten” brain from the classroom. There were also panning scenes that involved Frankenstein’s lab and watchtower whenever they were there. I was also impressed with how they filmed the burning of the windmill at the end. This is really tying in with the editing. With the cuts between the fiery inside and burning outside was done really well. Not only does this scene look good, the cuts between normal scenes were fine. The transitions between Frankenstein’s monster scenes and scene involving the main people are done well. Raising the overall tension of the film.
