The overall acting and actors in this film really do make the script real, tangible and believable as you watch the movie progress. Matt Damon is haunting as Will Hunting. Yes, we get that he’s gifted, but what hits me, is that he’s just like all of us. Sure we may not be “geniuses,” but we are human. We make mistakes in our lives, are confused about what we want at times and sometimes just want to kick back with our friends instead of grow up. Damon captures the confused, and at time almost tortured, essence of Will Hunting in an astounding way. Playing off him well is Robin Williams in probably the best role of his career (‘Dead Poets Society’ is a close second). Williams played Sean Maguire with emotion that not many actors every really get to in their acting careers. The engaging, endearing, light-hearted and when needed, more serious tone, is the stark contrast to Will’s character that needs guidance. The rest of the cast, while outstanding, I never really thought of as any more than support for Damon and Williams. Ben Affleck plays Will’s best friend Chuckie. Always there for him, but also the guy that will tell him what he needs to be told. Minnie Driver is fantastic as Will’s first real girlfriend, Skylar. She brings the emotional challenge that Will so desperately needs in his life. Finally, Stellan Skarsgard plays Professor Lembeau to a tee and is more of a challenge to Macguire, rather than someone pushing Will towards the good he needs to find. Not to mention Williams and Skarsgard have amazing chemistry in each scene they are involved in.
‘Good Will Hunting’ is a film that brings a lot of happiness, then a lot of melodrama, then a lot of intense emotion, yet ends leaving us, as the viewer, with a hopeful feeling. We’re all confused, or have been confused, about something in our lives, just like Will is. Some of us aren’t as lucky to know what they want to do or be. If you say you’ve always known what you want in life, I won’t believe you, because I don’t think anyone knows that they want 100% of the time. This film is great because it shows us that even if we don’t know what we want, or know what we need to do and don’t do it, that it’s not the end of the world. I think the concept of second chances is a great one and I truly believe that we should all have them, since we’re not perfect. Will knew that he was on his second chance and eventually, after being pushed just right, he realized that he needed to change. We could all use these types of pushes in our lives or direction if we’re lost. ‘Good Will Hunting’ is a great example to all of us out here, that we shouldn’t give up or squander our talents, because in the end, the only thing that does is hold us back.
