The cinematography throughout Frankenstein was solid. And I think this also ties heavily in with the overall setting. When they showed the European town, it looked like an old timey town. Cobblestone roads, narrow streets and stone houses. The house in the middle of the hillside looked like it was made out of sticks, same with the windmill at the end.  The setting and overall look of the film had that vintage feel to it and it added to everything happening with Frankenstein’s monster. 
The lighting in this film seemed like it was less reliant on natural light or needing have things done during the day and/or night time. Obviously they needed to make the windmill scene happen at night. But everything else really looked like it was on a set. The scene to start where they were digging up the coffin or when the search parties were looking for Frankenstein’s monster, really looked like a backlit set. Rather than being limited to the sun, the moon and candles, this is the first film that’s really felt like it had lighting production. 
The costuming in Frankenstein was stellar and probably the best use of make-up and effect that we’ve seen so far. The look of the townspeople were all spot on. Looking era specific the men looked dapper while the women’s dresses were as big as their hair. The thing that shines out is the make-up work on Frankenstein’s monster. His long black suit was simple way of putting over his evilness. His mask, with a square head, the deformed looking eyes, the (what I imagine to be green) skin and the bolts out of his neck, is completely nightmarish. Such a simple mask on a giant person is done well enough to strike creepiness in a viewer’s mind.
The genre of Frankenstein is classified as horror, but I’d argue that it goes deeper than that. For the era, this “monster movie” certainly is scary. A mad scientist dug bodies, stitched them together and put a brain inside, then reviving it with a ton of electricity, only for it to escape and start murdering people? That’s terrifying if you think about it. But there’s also a hint of thriller, drama and romance laced throughout this film. The stalking of the countryside really played up the thriller aspect. The drama of the town being attack and them fighting back adds a huge bit of drama. While the romance between Frankenstein and Elizabeth culminates in romantic moments throughout the film.
The sound and music were good in Frankenstein. I didn’t notice too much that was bad. The music ramped up for the more intense scenes, like the windmill getting lit on fire, or at the beginning of the film when Frankenstein’s monster was first being created. I liked the use of music in this film to set tone, more than to just have music and it worked really well.
