Speaking of the rebirth, I want to go into lighting because it’s used superbly in this film. Despite what I think about Van Sant overall, he did a lot of good things in this film. The scene after the infamous “It’s Not Your Fault” scene, we have Will riding home on the train at sunset and eventually into the night. The lighting (and overall look) of the scene is perfect and really got me thinking about it. The sunset is a representation of Will’s life about to move on from where it currently is. Just like a sunset takes us into the unknown of the next day. The fact that he’s still on the train when it’s dark out, signifies the fact that he’s moving into that unknown. This is one of my favorite shots in the film and the cinematography in this scene alone is really just amazing and the long shots of the train itself and shots of Damon thinking about Will’s life is outstanding.
I like the editing in ‘Good Will Hunting’ but I can’t say that anything major stood out to me. The transitions between the scenes were pretty normal. The score and shots of people thinking about themselves provide a nice transition between scenes. The use of the flashback to the Red Sox World Series win during Maguire’s story of meeting his wife is a great example of editing in a clip into a premiere film and making it work. Since I’m sure, outside of huge sports buff, no one’s going to really be beefed up on Red Sox history.
The music and the score are awesome in this film and really lends to everything happening properly. Danny Elfman, the composer for the majority of Tim Burton’s films, including ‘Batman’ (1989), handles everything well. The intimate scenes between Will and Skylar sounded perfect. The famous tone when Will is solving the problems on the board is insanely memorable. Finally, the use of the score, in each of the transitional scenes is such a great touch. Also, Elliott Smith’s “Miss Misery” is a phenomenal song that really does go perfectly with the tone and happenings of ‘Good Will Hunting.’ 
The casting and overall story is what makes ‘Good Will Hunting’ the instant classic that it’s viewed as. The story, written by a much younger duo of Matt Damon and Ben Affleck might be the best work of their careers. Yes I really liked ‘Argo’ and didn’t mind the Academy Award win for it and yes Affleck is going to be what looks like a good Batman, but ‘Good Will Hunting’ is on another level. The story is highly original, the characters are compelling and the mix between humor and emotion is done very well. The two deserve all the praise anyone can give them for this tremendous script. 
