I loved the lighting in this film as it did a couple of nice things. First of it brought emotion. The biggest thing I notice was Blaine’s bar after dark (so to speak). Whenever we saw it, it was completely dark and Blaine was usually drinking or in a bad mood. So the darkness would amplify the sadness, or in the scene where Lund asks Blaine for the papers, emotion. The other thing I noticed, is that whenever there was a tight shot of a woman speaking, there was almost an angelic glow behind them (alongside a bit of watery eyes) as well, to heighten everything that they were saying to the fullest extent. 
The costuming in Casablanca was pretty fitting throughout as well. Blaine’s dapper look throughout was a welcome sight in every scene. This seemed like a part of town that attracted wealthier people, so they looked like the more well off that would be traveling during that time period. Also, anytime we saw a soldier, they were always dressed in period-era uniforms that added to the realism that war was upon them.
Editing for Casablanca was pretty good. A lot of the films that we’ve watched so far where pretty jumpy when it came to transitioning between scenes. This was pretty good about it, as everything flowed pretty well. There were some questionable cuts, mostly to things not in frame that were happening, but overall everything flowed well.
The genre for Casablanca is pretty straightforward. The part of the plot that dealt with the Germans looking for a prisoner and Blaine keeping the document from everyone brought out most of the drama. The romance came throughout when Blaine, Laszlo and Lund had their pseudo love triangle as the film wore on. You could see that Blaine and Lund had a past and they explored it really well throughout. Romance and drama was clearly predominate throughout. 
I love the sound and music throughout this. The score was fantastic throughout. The tense scenes were lathered with haunting music. While I distinctly remember theme, “As Time Goes By” being used fantastically. It has also since become one of the best film themes of all time. It’s also a factor that helped propel Casablanca to be one of the greatest films of all time.
The acting and character development was iconic, to go with the theme. Bogart, Bergman and Henreid, were splendid in their roles, but I want to touch on Bogart and Bergman especially. Bogart as Rick Blaine was splendid. All the dapper of a man from that era, with the smarts to go along with it. He played a man that left a questionable place and made himself into a new, successful person somewhere else. Not to mention the emotion, and humor at times, felt sincere and were really well done from start to finish. On the other-side of the ball Bergman was elegant as Lund. Her beauty shone through as well as her ability to convey emotion. As someone who still had feelings for a former lover, the fact that she had to hide things from him took some form of toll on her. The combination of these two is the life blood of the film and everyone else who is in scenes benefited greatly.
