My house was on a quiet street. Old cars silent in the driveways when I got home from school. Evergreens towering over the rooves like huge sentinels. They were dark and green and the asphalt was wet and blank. Windows peering out from behind dense trunks and uncut shrubbery. The school bell ringing distantly through the afternoon. Soon the neighbors would be home and we would gather in the street to talk and run and play. When they came stepping down the road we popped out of houses to greet each other. Running into the street with an action figure or a frisbee to make believe or to play catch and talk about the day. Those days were sunny. The light lit up every lawn, like hay laying down to be dried. The children didn't care. We rolled ourselves in the spiky fields that spread out before our houses and reveled in how much of the world could be touching our skin at once. Huckleberry bushes perching at the edges to be plucked of fruit and tasted. Stories weaving into the weeds among our bodies and tying this familiar spot to great exotic adventures. Stories lasting forever. When the sun came out for too long it was too much to stay close by so we gathered up our bikes and helmets to ride. The road climed up or down, there was no avoiding the hill we perched on. Always pedaling uphill first. Our feet met pavement at every stop sign until our age made us wise enough to roll past them. Standing on the pedals to make it up past the school, up to the woods where bikes bounced through winding trails. Frisbees flew on baseball fields and our feet mussed the infield. Footprints tracking down the center. At home I took out snacks and trailed barefoot into the weeded backyard. The swing had been built by my father after I was almost too old to love it. Pumping didn't work. Kick off the ground with every pass to gain height, more and more until I could see the mountains in the distance. Down the hill where the lake was and the trails were and the big road curved and rushed. Movies in the park. Dock stretching out over the water, covered in geese. Library in the mall. Books piled up in tight racks beside the chair where I would sit for a whole hour and read all the way through a comic. Turning the pages in a rush. When I was hungry I walked to the top floor and ate quesadillas at high tables, the dining room in motion all around. It was still quiet. Quiet polite conversations and the noises of children from the playpen and teenagers arguing louder than anyone else, but it was still quiet. Later in the years it would get small. The bikes and the towering evergreens and how the road curved tightly down the hill to the library. But the streetlights would still be the same, how they glowed yellow in the early nighttime. How they cast soft light in the dark. The quiet dark.
