The trees line the streets like a marching band ever waiting for the next cue to play, changing only with the strength of the wind. They sway gently sometimes, shielded by the houses that are packed tightly together. To someone unfamiliar, it would be hard to tell the difference between many of the homes, all a similar style, all red brick. The differences are subtle. A different colored overhang above the door. Sometimes a window is round. A bedroom community they call it because people return home to rest and relax but not to do too much else. Always sleepy, but with a dreamlike quality, never a nightmare. People see each other when they’re walking their dogs or mowing their lawns, the very basic activities of American suburban life. There isn’t much else to do, people say to each other. They need to go elsewhere for entertainment outside of their own homes. That’s for the big city, they say, and you need to be willing to enter the dark forboding tunnels to get there, like the gaping maw of a shark or lion. If you need to cross a river or go under one, you’re getting too far away from home. Too much risk, too much adventure. To cross into another valley, to cross over a mountain shrouded in fog, it’s worth it to just stay in the dream. People stay close to home for their jobs for the same avoidance of the monstrous tunnels and looming bridges . You can’t get there from here. That’s a repeated refrain for people who have lived here for generations. You can’t get there from here. It spreads like a foregone conclusion, an infection of the soul. The refusal to seek adventure across a river that cuts such a swath across the landscape, the refusal to seek any opportunity that might keep them longer on the road. There are parks to spend their time with their children. The parks are lovely, full of trees, natural water, and frequently dotted by a variety of wildlife. Deer, squirrels, groundhogs, so many birds, there are as many animals as humans around here. Photography is a common hobby for many, with the wildlife often being a common subject for the memories kept and shared by locals. It is a point of pride, having so much natural splendor in what is technically close to a city, as the crow flies. When you can look out of your window or sit on a bench and see a herd of six white-tailed deer, what do you have to worry about? In this dreamy state, people spend a lot of time on their porches and decks, keeping each other close and focusing on the good things they have. The sunlight rises and falls on them, with days passing with few concerns. With few ambitions. They don’t worry about the things they don’t already have because they have each other and they have peacefulness, and if you can’t get anywhere else from here, it doesn’t much matter.
