Edmond spirals and hugs the edge of a darker city. Warm, vibrant and old it is an attempt to protect the weaker from the brutal parts of Oklahoma City. The road is filled with small and medium sized houses squatting upon perfectly cut lawns that fight against the pot holed filled roads. My neighbors are forever smiling however I can never remember their names and I hear screams of their children on the trampoline long into the hot summer night. My cat loves these streets. Ernie has fur the color of milky coffee and alert golden eyes, in a way he knows he’s beautiful and as he stalks the streets, he holds it above the other cats. Sometimes I hear he’s little bell skittering through the shaggy green trees while he screams for his mistresses. Every day my baby and I walk through the streets on the new footpaths. Every house here is different, a testament to the history of my town they all belong to different decades. In a way you can tell which houses belong to the baby boomers as their lawns have been scattered with lawn ornaments and Christian flags. The strangest is a giant junk sculpture complete with baby dolls and the phrase “thank god for our veteran’s” written across the front. The further down you walk the older the houses become until you reach a few blocks of tiny Victorian cottages. These homes look almost like tiny shabby dollhouses and are rented to college students. One of them belongs to “Steve’ the local homeless man. Technically he isn’t homeless, but his house is condemned, and he wandered the streets with a cart and a dog collecting cans of sugar free red bull. People who are new to the area wring their hands online and insist he must be arrested. Long term residents however know that Steve is the first to protect someone who is being harassed and his dog loves the local children. Steve is in a way our guardian. Once you pass the dollhouses you reach the historic main street. Beautifully restored brick shop fronts filled with polished antique furniture and dolls sit alongside trendy hipster diners and classic eating holes. The streets are filled with tiny bronze sculptures of children feeding arm animals. In many ways they’re my daughters’ best friends, she dances with them and feeds them food. Mummy look he has a balloon! That’s not a balloon sweet girl, that’s a lyre! It makes music. Ok I dance with him now! I’m a happy girl today! The sun beats down on us, hot and scorching with a wild wind from the east. It’s always too hot here, too windy, too cold and too icy. Only sometimes, for a brief three days or so we get a gentle spring. It’s amazing what you can get used to, it doesn’t bother her at all as the wind rips through her curls and she dances with the statue. My baby, her little sister was born into this town and doesn’t notice the wind at all. It’s time to walk back to our house, down the old roads. 
