The small town set south of the large urban city sprawled like a child clinging to the hem of it's mother's dress. An off shoot that's small and quiet. Lazy and yet bustling. Houses dotted the country sides, interrupted by the winding concrete highways that lead to more important places. The town itself, filled with shops, bars, a movie theater, clothing boutiques, a court house, a police station, schools, and banks. No different than any where else. The locals who know everyone, and everyone who knows everyone else, or at least they think they do. The streets are paved with rough concrete. They crisscross between houses that are old and new, some modern, some quaint and cottage like. Trees are everywhere. Some so tall they could touch the sky if they wanted to, clustered in groups of 3,4,8,10. Others alone and small. Birds sing from their nests and squirrels forage for nuts. Dogs bark, kids laugh, and sirens break the quiet. Small passenger plains sail overhead and streak the endless blue sky white and the whirl of the helicopter can be heard landing at the hospital. During winter, the ground is buried under three feet of snow. Going outside, the wind stings like a thousand needles hitting your skin. Your breathe heating the air moments before it is stolen from you. Ice covering windows and cars like a second skin. Endless darkness awaits in winter, cooped up inside for 6 months to stay out of the cold. Only the slow and never ending thaw brings the world back to life. Spring comes in a rush. Warm winds from the south and rain from Canada make an evergreen landscape. Verdant plants and grasses spring to life. As does the pollen. The air ripe with the smell of manure from nearby farms. A drive in the countryside would reveal thousands of new life forms. Cattle, sheep, cats, goats, pigs, all giving birth and making way for more generations. Farms bring out their big steel equipment. Eager to start their plating season. They take up roads, slow traffic and cause general grief among the locals. People seek out the newness of the year, and enjoy the rays of the sun. They run, bike, walk on the trials. Children play with toys on the sidewalk, dogs rut up the grass, and teenagers skate board in the street. Shops start to bustle with customers, business picks up, the people are chatty. Long gone are the jeans and snow boots. Multiple shirts, coats, scarves, gloves. In come the shorts, t-shirts, sandals, dresses and bad BO. People their are happy and full of life. Some sad to see the snow go. Others excited to take off on vacations and going fishing in the nearby lakes for an afternoon of booze, banter and babbling. Life here is good. It is safe, secure, peaceful in the way a small town life can be.
