When I arrived in my new neighborhood for the very first time I was instantly in love. The greenery of the trees providing shade for the people of the city, the red clay dirt staining the sidewalks and roads, reminding us that we are in the south now. Welcome y'all. The first greeting by the locals in our new neighborhood was short. Sweet. Inviting. We knew we were home. Soon after unpacking and moving into our new home, we set out to soak in our surroundings, to embrace our new community and home for everything that it is and isn't. We traveled the main thoroughfares with the top of our Jeep pulled back, windows down, radio on shuffle to take in the new sights, smells, and sounds of our new neighborhood. We watched as our new neighbors lent each other a hand, seemingly unprovoked. This was the southern hospitality we had heard so much about. A couple of ladies struggled in church dresses as they scrambled to put an item back in their car that had fallen to the road. A gentleman quickly stopped to help the damsels in distress and they eagerly thanked the man with open arms and a warm embrace for his generosity and kindness. As we looked on, we smiled, knowing that if we too were in such a predicament, that a kind neighbor just may stop and help us as well. Our neighborhood is probably like other neighborhoods, but this one is our own. Each street is unique and different, block to block, corner to corner, the fabric of our neighborhood is woven into a beautiful and vibrant tapestry of diversity and inclusion. We could spend years trying each and every small, family-owned restaurant or diner, or visiting every mom and pop shop in town, and we still may not see them all. Is this it? Have we found our home? My wife and I, though just a few weeks in as residents of our neighborhood, may have found our place in the world. A place where people are kind, welcoming, loving, and respectful. A hardened New England demeanor quickly becoming softened by the charm of the southeast United States. Where food of all ethnic backgrounds and styles are available to us, where the streets are walkable and the weather is warm. Just as the neighbors are warm and welcoming, the weather is just the same. The hot sun, the humid air, all seem to be too much, but our neighborhood is green, shaded, covered and protected from the scorching sun by the canopy of leaves provided by the tall oak trees. This is our place. This is our new world. We are thankful to have discovered our new neighborhood, and we are thankful to continue discovering it each and every day as we find our place as citizens, patrons, and best of all, neighbors.
