Growing up, my childhood was a great experience for me. I learned so much about myself as well as the people around me and developed as a human being. My neighborhood was what many would refer to as middle class. There were moderately expensive houses all around but nobody was driving corvettes and Porsches. There were several kids around my age that I regularly engaged with, which was great for my development. I was rarely home and spent a majority of my days at the local park playing baseball, basketball, soccer, football, and all sorts of other games. My best friend growing up was a black boy named Michael. He was an African American boy who was much taller and more athletic than me. In many ways I envied him. He also viewed me as his best friend and we did many things together. Every day after school we would go to the local corner store and get a chocolate ice cream cone. They were the best. After getting ice cream we would go to the park and try to find other kids to play baseball or basketball with. This park was unlike any other that I have ever seen. It had everything a kid could imagine from courts to fields to a huge playground and even a swimming pool. In the summer we would spend entire days at the pool. On some weekends Michael would spend the night at my house or I would go over to his. We would often sneak out of the house late at night to explore the neighborhood. Sometimes we would go out in my backyards to the secret tree house that my father had built for me. The tree house was about 15 feet high and had a ladder to climb up to get into it. Off the left side of it was a slide that twisted and turned all the way to the ground. Off the right side was a rope that I remember dangling off of as the freshly fallen leaves fell onto my face. After playing in the tree house for a few hours we would sneak off to the creek next to Michaels house. The creek had a perfect water flow to it and I could sit there looking at it for hours. It was truly breath taking. Michael and me would take turns skipping rocks across the creek seeing who could get the most skips. My neighborhood was truly the greatest thing about my development as a human being and has shaped me into the person that I am today. I have learned so much about what it takes to thrive in this world and the need to take risks in order to see the true nature of all that life has to offer. I feel that my neighborhood has prepared me well for this next step in life.
