As he came upon his block, he noticed for the first time all the open space. In the city, people lived in crowded neighborhoods, boroughs, or complexes, but in the country it was open and it was quiet. The farmer who had sold his land to developers upon his retirement still retained an acre across from the neighborhood's entrance sign. The houses were large, still middle class but expensive. The streets resembled the shape of a horse, the passion of the real estate developer who had bought the land. Most lots were two acres or more. A vast forest bordered the neighborhood to the east, while flat lands dominated the west, where giant power lines roamed through the edges, coming from nowhere and going anywhere. He remembered back to when he had first moved there, eight years before. Now fully built houses were beginning to dot the landscape and turn it into a proper neighborhood, but back then there had been only five houses amongst the empty lots. His family had been the fourth to move in, and the house across the street had been empty. That was where he had gone to bathe when they discovered the real estate agent had deceived them. He had not informed them that no proper well had been dug on their lot, and the water soon ran out. A lawsuit followed, but in the meantime his family had to pay out of pocket to dig a new well, and to put in a cistern for the interim. He thought of the basic fence surrounding their property once, which had looked dilapidated when they had moved in despite the house being a year old. That fence would not have stopped a small child from entering the yard, and only extended a ways up the street, so anyone could walk around. It had been torn down years before and never replaced, which at the very least had made mowing the grass a bit easier. He thought of how long the driveway was, and how it conjoined at the road with the driveway from next door. He remembered backing into his neighbor's mailbox once when had been learning to drive. He thought of the front yard, an open field where anyone could run barefoot without worry of injury. This was juxtaposed with the wooded backyard, with thorn trees that discarded barbs the length of an index finger. Once he had foolishly worn sandals back there, thinking the hard soles would protect him, but didn't consider the length of the thorns. He spent the evening at the hospital getting pieces of a thorn surgically removed from the side of his foot. He thought of the contrast of the people who lived her versus his old neighborhood, where everyone was in close proximity and hung out in the yards on a nightly basis during the warm months. In this neighborhood, the houses are more spaced and no one really knows anyone. His sister was friends with the girl "next door," which was really three lots down with two empty ones between their houses. Their dads had to cut a path with their lawn mowers through the tall grass that had grown in that field so they didn't have to walk on the street to visit, a field that legend has it was the birthplace of a fierce tornado that had ripped through the nearby town about twenty years before.
