The neighborhood where I used to live in the summer when my father would go out of town for work was always a curious place. There was a man. He would sit in his wheelchair scanning his eyes up and down the road. The man's feet tucked tight to the chair. His Philadelphia Eagles jacket. His cigarette in his teeth and a thin wisp of smoke floating from the butt. He turned to watch the parking lot, cradling his chairs joystick, taking the cigarette from his mouth to ash it with a flick of his fingers. He sat listening to the birds chirp on the buildings. Calm, this. The warmth and the silence. Not far from where the old man rests there is a small patch of woods. Barren and leafless branches of trees stretch away on every side during fall. Wind moving over the trees and the rusted old signs of city ordnance bolted to metal. At the center of the woods there stands a large statue. Sometimes the man in the wheelchair wanders over to the woods. He looks at the statue. I'm all right, the man will say. The man will put his hand on the statue and look toward the inscription on the base below him. He sits listening to the wind blowing in the woods. Calm, this. There was a large decrepit building a hundred feet from the patch of woods where me and the man used to go in the fall for scraps. He'd sit in the back in his wheelchair, resting his eyes while I went in. In the dark and cold of the building i'd reach out to touch for metal scraps beside me. My hand rose and fell shakily which each staggered breath. I pushed away the cob webs and carried myself in my sweatshirt and headlamp and looked toward the back for any scrap but there was none. When I got back the man was still asleep. In the dream from which he'd wakened he had wandered in a cave where the child led him by the hand. Their light playing over the we flowstone walls. I pulled the light blanket off of him and folded it and placed it in his bag. An hour later we were in the clearing. He drove his wheelchair and both he and I carried bags. In the bags were our lunch. In case had to eat before we got home. Clamped to the armrest of the wheelchair was a chrome motorcycle mirror that he used to watch the road behind him. We stopped in the woods and stashed our lunch over where it could not be seen and we left and went back to the parking lot. A standing metal mailbox across the woods. I would go drop mail but there was trash. Good smokes. A metal can. Some old food wrappers, crumpled and crushed. I'd stare at the mailbox and stand there. Then pick up the trash and bring it to the trash. The neighborhood was a curious place.
