Lined on the street like a formation of matchboxes are the long rows of houses that almost appear as if magic mirrors are used extending the scene into infinity. The houses are tall and closely knit--a lot like the residents who like to peer through windows with their ever-unquenchable curiosities into each other's lives and homes. Every car leaves the drive in the morning as the school bus picks up its young passengers to take them to the conveyor belt of education. As they appear to play in the morning sun with their colorful book bags and neatly combed hair, there is a question of if there is anything behind their eyes as they are almost robotically happy young children. The street poles are tall and black. They are sleekly designed with ornamentation from the nineteenth century. Every three houses proudly has one in a neat and orderly fashion. As the cars roll away filled with fathers going to work in brown pants and a white-collar shirt, mothers are inside gathering their magazines and getting ready to chat about any one who is not there in the backyard of Susie, Jenny, or Mary-Magdalene. They sit and sip mamosas while complimenting each other's accomplishments while secretly despising them. After the morning chats, it is delivery times. Trucks and construction workers start to fill the streets. some homes are getting carpets cleaned, while others invite the plumber in to fix the leak that has warped the bottom of the sink. Landscapers are working hard to ensure the small yards are cut and neat with lines so straight that it would appear that a straight razor was used to mark the sidewalk from the short blades of thick green grass that almost appear to be artificial turf. They trim the hedges into perfect squares that separate each home's boundaries from the next with an almost razor sharp precision. as the landscapers work hard ensuring the geometrical look of the neighborhood, little eyes can be seen veering through the small holes in the lace curtains watching their every move as they sweat and work in the morning sun. The retired residents can be seen walking their little dogs on retractable leashes as they yelp after having perfectly groomed manes with little bows keeping fur from their eyes. The clicking can be heard from several houses away as the little yelper runs ahead and pulls the leash while their owners grip the handle and try not to drop the plastic blue poo-poo bags in their hands. They walk to the small corner park that has a small patch of grass and boasts a small jungle gym for toddlers. Here a few mothers have their strollers lined in formation and chat while their young toddlers play together. Their laps are filled with bags and belongings and have every possible need for their children from boogie-wipes to tupperware containers of raisins and trail mix. The scene is the same day in and day out. There is not much change other than the weekends.
