On the far side of the main road near the the wooded park. A quarter mile down the road from shops and a few roadside gas stations. A small and charming residential neighborhood sits. Many families and their children do live, older neighbors whose families have lived on the same street for generations, and young families and single professionals attracted by the thriving arts and cultural communities. The neighborhood was mostly built in the late 50's through the 60's. Mostly cape or ranch style houses scattered through the streets. Many small homes have been outgrown and additions have been added on. Most have a garage to protect from the snow and bad weather. All have at least a small driveway for cars, no overnight parking is allowed all though the streets are wide enough for it. Many streets have been or are being repaved and are large and smooth. Many small houses are in a row with kept grass, shrubbery and flowers all surrounding. Gardening is quite popular and most homes look nice with flowers. A short walk to the park, cut through to get to the high school. A mile further down the main road there is an elementary school that many young children do attend. There is many things to do, there are bike paths and trails one may go walking and exploring near the rivers edge. Close to the prosperous commercial and entertainment core, offer a bustling atmosphere of boutiques, shops, lounges, and restaurants designed to suit the discriminating tastes of residents and visitors. A busy little neighborhood with soccer and baseball on weeknights and the weekends, families traveling around with their precious cargo in toe. Eating at quaint restaurants and shopping at boutiques. Close to it all, airports, large cities and retail galore. Our town is really a small city but many consider it a suburban utopia, our escape from hectic lives our little slice of heaven. There are also many farms and places to go pick your own fresh fruit and vegetables and even flowers. And there’s plenty of food to choose from Cafe's, quaint bistros, Italian Restaurants, Chinese Restaurants, Mexican Restaurants and great Diners that offers everything from breakfast tacos and quiche to Cheesecake and Death by Chocolate Cake that will unfairly tease your taste buds. Many places to make your own beer and unique festivals are sprinkled throughout the year. There is a beer brewery a stones throw away its brewing heritage and draft horses are fun to see. Today, the nearly 40 bars, restaurants and quirky shops that are scattered throughout the narrow tree-lined streets. Many with outdoor eating and patios for enjoying the nice weather when it is here. There are also many beautiful churches in the area featuring 1800's architecture and stain glass windows, very grand and opulent. A great place to live and grow a family, close to everything you can imagine. I enjoy my neighborhood and the community itself. After you’ve had your fill, take a stroll down to the river to enjoy one of the city’s most scenic and restful spaces near many city parks.
