The neighborhood was something warm, like maple syrup poured over pancakes on a wintry Saturday morning. Melting butter. In the spring the grass was green and stretched for miles until it reached the horizon and broke off abruptly. Cows grazed in the fields, nothing on their minds but the green grass and the warm summer sun. Their faces dull and empty. A small white trailer sat on the side of the road, its inhabitants long gone. Deserted. A pile of wood still sat, abandoned, to the side of the trailer. After another half mile there was a large white farmhouse, its checkered curtains always drifting in the breeze, its screen door always open to the neighbors. The fields surrounding it were freshly tilled, the white fence freshly painted. It looked fresh and clean in the yellow summer sun. Every fifteen minutes or so, a car drove past, heading into town perhaps, or down to the corner store. The cows didn’t bother to raise their heads or look up from their grass. The man sitting on his front porch lifted his pipe briefly, a salute to the driver who passed. The tires turning ceaselessly on the asphalt. Down yonder a small bridge stretched across a stream that swelled with water ever time it rained. Four dirty trailers were perched on the hill, weathered and worn from no upkeep. A stain on the green land. Crack holler. The neighbors avoided this area, and turned their faces the other way when they had to drive past. The sun didn’t shine as bright on this spot. People avoided looking, avoided talking, avoided. This hill that had seen such squalor. There were several modest houses, double wides really, past the holler. Practical, sensible houses that no one really noticed or cared about. The yards always mowed, the trees always trimmed. The people eating sensibly inside. Dressing for work. Bathing their children. The sun still shone its bright rays and melted its sunsets across these houses, basking them in the hope and glory of a new day each morning. Overlooking it all was the mountain, the old man himself who weathered each winter once again and then woke each spring for a new year. Covered in evergreens. Small rivers like tears running down his face. When it snowed, the old man was covered in frost, white tips on his eyelashes and dusting his beard. Snowflakes falling like memories of everything the land had been to him over the years. He had watched his father and his father’s father grow tobacco on this land, and had watched the cows graze and birth calves and finally fall to rest on this land. One day, he himself would be put to rest on this land. But for now, he was content. Overlooking it all. Forming his memories. Forging forth with the hope that this land would one day bring more than just the hope of a new day. But then again that was all he really needed, the old man. He put his pipe down and blew out some smoke, fog melting down the mountain. The passing of another day. Sunset melting in the distance. 
