A place I call home, a place where friends were made, knees were scraped, and hearts were filled with love. The neighborhood is a special place surrounded with tall fences as white as the clouds in the sky. A dog barking at every passing neighbor. Like it was doing an important job. It jumped in the deep brown dirt of an unwatered lawn. Little kids were playing on bikes from dawn to dusk. Trying to get take in every ounce of daylight. They spent hours giggling, humming, and moving. Like little chimpanzees swinging from tree to tree. The park was the famous point of the neighborhood. It had the best slides that could send a large adult flying. Like a common crane soaring in the sky. While the clouds began to shift. And the colors began to appear. Silence filled the air and all were amazed. Pink, yellow, and orange skies. Like a painting in the gallery. A little boy tugged on his mother’s soft cotton dress. Asking to have another second, another minute, another hour of play. He whimpered softly when he was told it was time for dinner. Walking back home slowly in the crunchy green grass. Hitting small pebbles with his dirty scuffed up sneakers. He wanted to go on the swing. For the first time. Since his vacation. He was sad. When he woke the next morning he peered out the windows. Like a kangaroo joey wondering what was going on in the world. From the small crack in the curtain he saw a girl. Holding up sign reading lemonade stand. Squinting and smiling he caught sight of a fresh lemon. Sitting on the table. Ready to be squeezed and sold. He ran past the pale blue cookie cutter houses. All standing two stories high. He ran to the girl and asked if he could help. Twisting her pigtails she nodded her head. Grabbing his hand she showed him how to squeeze the lemon. Add the sugar, add the water. Stir, stir, stir. He kept up with her sweet commands trying to be the best lemonade maker on the block. The neighborhood was buzzing with zooming cars and energetic kids. Sticky sugar dripped down the side of the table. Striking the ground with a pitter patter motion. Until a big cloth wiped it clean. When the first neighbor came to buy a drink. He stood there anxiously and excitedly. Filling the coin jar with 2 shiny quarters. He knew at that moment he felt a sense of success. He began to make more drinks and calling others attention. Then he ran up his steep driveway for lunch. Looking for his mom. Any sign. Any trace of her leftover ham sandwich on the counter. He pet his stinky, furry, dog. A labradoodle named Jeff. White and fluffy like a sheep. He studied her face and colored a picture of her. “Mama”, he called. Still waiting for her to know he was home. He wanted her to read a book to him. A favorite from the library. They crawled up on that couch and he closed his eyes. To the soothing sound of his mother’s voice.
