In the dark of the night, you would see racoons and skunks that roam the grounds. The harvest moon glimmers in the sky, breaking through the cluttered clouds. Down in the valley, there is a general store where the children all meet. They play from sun up until sun down, then go home to their mothers call. Evergreen trees surround all of the local homes in the village. We are enclosed in them, as they sway back and forth. You can hear them rustle in the warm, spring winds. The leaves and buds are all turning beautiful colors of red, purple, white, and yellow. Beyond the evergreens, are mountains of coal where you can hear the miners digging their coal out. Dynamite is blasted and the ground shakes immensly as it is exploded. Children get scared and find comfort in their mothers embrace. Rivers flow behind the homes, where a dam is built for the children to swim. Calling their friends they play and waddle in the waters, like ducks. Snakes are found in these waters, although the children do not mind. Sun beams hit the water and they reflect the colors of the dams bed. These colors flicker in the sunlight, and create a feeling of warmth that comes over you. If you listen closely, you can hear mothers calling their children home for lunch and dinner. Getting agitated if the children arent home in time for meals. The homes are all in rows, about 30 in total. They are all connected to eachother, and there is a playground for the children to play. All is fun in the summer time, when school is out. Water gun fights, bike riding, ice pop eating all takes place within this community. Cars and trucks line up in front of the homes, all belonging to various families. The summers are hot and sticky, and the winters are harsh and cold. Snow covers the parking lot for months, and the children play on the mounds. Children play for hours outside, living their life as children to the fullest. Smiles are on every single childs face so you know that they are living their best lives. Parents get to enjoy watching them grow up and be adventorous. People of all ages like to sit out and enjoy the weather. Getting along with one another is something that comes natural. Everyone helps one another and it doesnt bother them in the slightest bit. Our neighborhood has a peaceful feeling to it that is hard to come by. Visiting our neighborhood would fill your heart with joy and you would not want to leave. Look up and you will see birds flying up and high, all various kinds. Blue birds, blue jays, robins, finches, crows, mocking birds, and woodpeckers live within the evergreens. Unaware of the village of humans below them, they fly freely above us. Eggs line their nests in the summer time, and you hear baby birds waiting for a worm. This is my neighborhood I call home.
