It was just around sunrise when I woke. The air mattress I had slept on had softened over night, and I got up right as the air conditioning sputtered off. Though the Sun shone into the room reminding me that it was not affected, some other familiar indicators of morning time were not present. I stepped on to the tiny balcony a lit a cigarette expecting the city to experience the chaos that has encompassed my city for a bit over a month, but today I sensed only the familiar smells and sensations of the city I grew up in: thick, warm humid air mixed with the smell similar to that of Bourbon Street the morning after Mardi Gras Day. It was maybe six weeks after the storm had made landfall, but not until this past week had the water receded. While the city of New Orleans finally returned from it's previous occupation as a lake, the extent of what was left for us was still unclear. What was clear was though the water receded, the suffering lingered. Today I planned to return to my house. I moved my family into this house 10 years ago, a comfortable two story house situated next to a dead end. We've weathered many hurricanes in that house, and during those storms managed to only lose a few shingles. This storm was to be no different until the city issued the mandatory evacuation. We hastily packed with every we could, expecting to return in days time. My last attempt to get to our house a week ago was futile: I managed to drive my car up about 3 miles away from the house before the water reached a level too high for my small Honda. I stepped out and began to tread through. The water consisted of everything it stole from the people of New Orleans: our food, our houses and vehicles, our friends and family. Death and sewage. I never questioned what it was I was soaking in. I got to the school located from my house, and by this point the water was to my shoulders. I saw that people had sought refuge there. Banners hung down from the roof, saying "Please Help" and "There Are Kids." It was a scene too familiar during a crisis everyone has had to adjust to to survive. Across the street smoke rose from the shopping strip where I would bring my boys who would beg after school for me to bring them for slushies and candy, or to the Blockbuster where the family would stroll every Friday looking for a new movie. By the time I reached my street, I surveyed to see if anyone had been recently present. My neighbor who fixed Saabs could not find enough people to tow out his cars, and the old sporty vehicles littered the street. Neighbors had their windows smashed in, and the lethal conditions that were present failed to prevent looters from having their way. It became a lot more real at that moment. It became more personal than it had ever yet been.
