A man shouted with gruff vigor. Two red syllables reverberating across the gray morning. KUJO. Lean brown legs traipsed toward the man and he repeated his call. Hesitant and hurried. KUJO. The legs were like a train carrying a lover off to war. The dog craned his head around to take in all the scents and sights of the trees and neighbors' dogs and sky and houses and road and everything. Then he was led inside by the collar. Every morning and noon and night. The squirrels screeched just outside any window with a bush. Then the crows. Then the man with the dog. The neighborhood roosters. A great hill rose up to the west. It encircled the edge of the edge of the city. Sparse shrubs on a beige and dead canvas. Deer in the evenings snuck down from the trees there to steal nectarines and excite the cats. Each lawn was a scrap of freshly barbered grass on daily life support. A few defiant dead brown plots pocked the lanes. Few physical fences lined the yards, but an invisible wall quickly snuffed out any conversation between one neighbor to another. A polite nod on evening walks, a glare at a parking spot encroachment, a screaming toddler at each barbeque. They all hated one another, for the busting walls of children and tenants, for no other reason than nature. Joggers, bikers, hikers, and elderly couples paraded along the well-kept sidewalks each day. Perhaps to the great brown hill or to the plaza or to the bus and in turn to the city's heart. Between the KUJO and the caw and the scraw, the neighborhood was quiet. Even that plaza was quiet. A weathered ellipse of restaurants and facilities, a place where hundreds of people sparsely interact. A nail salon began the row, but before that a heap of swollen gray bags reclined on a bow-legged shopping cart. A sign that a scraggly man must have been nearby. A single sallow finger jutted out from a circle with a single candied blood nail on its tip. The tacky logo was encircled with forgettable text and a forgettable name. A karate instructor was next door. There were often white-clad children of all heights spilling out of the brightly lit and small building. Around a corner was a dry cleaner with a scrolling marquee blinking red and green and ads for local events in Chinatown. The next six doors are the gym, but only two doors open. The plaza continued for another several businesses. Fast food and tea and pizza and a vet before looping back around for a florist and more of the same. A rusty, royal blue rectangle sheltered a few travellers from infrequent rain along the road as they waited for the bus. The busses themselves were nigh ancient. Dirty gray beasts that were once white, plastered with ads and little orange lights that spelled out the destination. A single woman boarded as the bus approached. Clattering and wheezing, it left.
