The houses are red green blue yellow all the colors of the rainbow. But when it rains they are gray. When the water came down once hard after a long period of dryness the earthworms came up from the ground like long brown maggots writing on the cement run over by children riding their bicycles. Drunks all over this neighborhood. Some live in the houses. Wake up go to work at the restaurant or the corporation or even the boat, a few of them still. Come home I said I wanted my dinner ready he says I was busy taking care of the kid she says. He goes out to get drunk in any of the numerous bars lining the streets here. Used to drive to the one in the old neighborhood but after he lost his keys looking for them all night under the light of the street lamp now just walks to the neighborhood bar. Lot of bums in this neighborhood too. Used to be one of the ones going to the job now wake up in a tent beside a stranger or some of them under a tarp and even some just on the bench. Needles laying around the park empty of the comfort they brought from the night before now just sharp shells that even the youngest children have been told by their parents to stay away from. The smaller bar mostly caters to the local drunks who live nearby. Owner and his wife tend the bar and argue sometimes. Probably going to close it soon. Used to work in a larger bar a few blocks south but the building got sold and ripped down and now a new apartment building is there full of young programmers who will either leave or end up sleeping under a tarp when the corporation is gone and the money is gone and the needle is empty. Owner bought this one now and the drinkers from the other place come up here now, the ones that didn’t move away. Sells cigarettes even though he isn’t supposed to. Sometimes serves a boy under the age of twenty one when he thinks he can get away with it. Police don’t bother him. Goodwill store down the street. Old jeans for six dollars. Usually clean enough but I found a used tampon in one once. I heard you got a couch there once that had bedbugs I heard someone say to someone on the bus once. Most of the drunks and bums here will be chased away soon. Police ignore them but neighbors the ones with families who haven’t moved out yet come by and rip up their tarps and cut holes in their tents when it rains. Sometimes they sleep right through after nodding off to the white or brown depending on the market that time of the year. Once they cut a hold in a tent and the boy inside slept right through and he was found dead the next day because the rain fell into his mouth and he drowned.
