Awakening in my bed, the woods alive with the chirping of the winged beasts. Their incessant chirping. The woods was all I knew, living in rural Maine. "IS everything going to be okay?", I asked myself. "Yes, of course." "How do you know?", I pleadingly asked. "You already know." With that, I awoke arising to my feet. Ready to start a new day. A day that was untold, filled with potential. The gray clouds blanketing the sky, with pillars of sunshine flittering through as if to say "I'm here." As if God was telling me everything will be okay. As the sun shines, the mind wanders. The nearest neighbor was nowhere to be seen. Pulling my pants and my shirt onto my pale naked body, I felt inspired and awakened by this morning scene. Finding inspiration in the divine nature of the world. Turning on the ceiling lights in my room, just to give more light to my life. "Is everything going to be okay?" "Yes, of course." The conversation playing over and over in my head. Something tells me, everything is going to be okay, but is it currently okay? Only God knows. God keeps his secrets to Himself. Man cannot handle God's secrets nor could man ever find knowledge within them. Man's mind is finite, God's mind is infinite. Capturing her heart was all that was on my mind. She has lead me on a chase for months! How could she be so cruel? So attrocious she was, but I loved her still. Only God knows. "Is everything going to be okay?" "Yes, of course." My heart fluttered as the sun shines, my mind races. My mind racing with thoughts of her and anxious finances. "How can I support my family when there is so little money in my town?" Somehow, my heart knew it would be okay. My mind did not agree. If God decided my life should be this way, how cruel can God be? Nay, how cruel can I be to think God could be that way? As I fought inside my mind, the white walls and barren, scraped wooden floors started to feel hot in my eyes. My eyes burned, tears dripping out. A sob was made from my mouth and heard by my ears. "Is everything going to be okay?" "Yes, of course." The sun shined, but my life didn't feel bright. I felt the birds mocking me! The birds in their feathers feeling sorry for me?!? Never could I have imagined life could be this way. The mockery of the birds stirred anger inside my heart. Curse those birds! I'll glass them with my mind and pretend they never existed! The incessant calling of the birds, telling me to get a move on. I didn't feel hot. I felt wreteched, feeling sorry for myself. As soon as I got up out of my bed, the desire to get back into my bird grew hot. Burning like a house fire. No no, bad thoughts. There was no way to stop a house fire once it was lit. Bad thoughts, bad thoughts. The birds mocking me once again. "Is everything going to be okay?" "Yes, of course." "How do you know?" "I am God, I know all." Could it be that God was speaking to me? He was speaking FOR me?! I shook myself and told myself to get some sleep. It was 6AM after all on a Sunday. The Lord's day. A day of rest. Everything was going to be alright.
