Thursday, I picked up my Massachusetts BFF from the Charlotte Airport. Laughter and giggles flourished as we headed North on I-77 to exit 45 to Troutman, NC.
My daughter had suggested a place to eat. I typed the address in my GPS, and we headed. The place was known as Randy’s Bar B Q on 103 North Main St, Troutman, NC!
Time warp! The first thing you notice when you walk in, is the clean, friendly atmosphere. Comfortable booths, a long counter and what looked like a regular restaurant area on the other side. I was intrigued by all the Coca Cola collectables mixed with the 1950’s diner décor.  Immediately, the feeling of “home” washed over you. It was as though, you were revisiting a favorited, familiar place. 

The personable, attentive staff didn’t hover, yet noticed the smallest detail. You could tell they cared. 
Example: I was playing with my I-phone, which was down to 20 percent. One of the gals, (not our waitress), walked to our booth and asked if I she could charge it behind the counter. Heck! YES!
Smiling customers that were obviously regulars, were called by their first names.

Sitting there we were surrounded by good natured and congenial banter. 
 I took a few clicks, the waitress laughed and said, “If you keep taking pictures, I may have to charge you.” 
I ordered the BBQ pork, Hush puppies and coleslaw along with a Coke.  Each table had Coco cola salt and pepper shakers, a glass container filled with delectable tasting Bar-B-Q sauce. This way, YOU controlled how much was put onto your meal.   
I took my first bite! My meal was DELICIOUS!! The generous servings will assure you will not walk away hungry! The variety of items available assure you can satisfy almost any craving. All at a reasonable price!
As my BFF and I sat there, giggled and chatted, jovial customers, stopped in. It was obvious some were just there for coffee or a quick bite and to interact. Some different than sitting at a regular restaurant where everyone has their nose buried in an electronic device.
 Positivity oozed from every corner of the place. 
The owner walked by and said,” Thank you for coming.”  His delivery flowed with our conversation and was in no way an interruption. 
I give Randy’s Bar B Q an A++ on food, service and friendliness. 
My plan? I will DEFINITLELY return AND soon! 
As we were readying to leave, our waitress asked if we wanted a free refill on our drinks to go! Less than 2 minutes later I had a refilled coke with a lid.
If you are in the Troutman area, make sure this gem is scheduled into your dining itinerary! 
