Got Something to write this down, he asked? She chuckled. Yup, she replied, I’m ready. She started jotting the number down and the line went dead. DANG, Karen exhaled, as she redialed the number. THREE times the phone was busy. Worst case scenario, if they didn’t pick up on the next call, she could always try the wrecker. Thankfully, the “boss” answered. She started to explain who she was, he laughed and quickly gave her the number, she retorted, I owe you one! 
Two cleansing breaths later, she dialed the number. The friendly voice on the phone listened intently as she explained her situation. One problem, he said which direction. She said well I think I am going North, but I can see the Honda dealership on my left. He chuckled and said, young lady YOU are going South. I am sending someone out now. Ahhhhhhhhhhh, she sighed, though her heart continued to pound. She called her daughter at work, to fill her in.  Her daughter helpfully offered to call for help. Nope, Karen said, I believe, I am ok. They had a quick chat and ended their conversation. Now, is NOT the time to need to pee said her brain. Her bladder thought differently.
Now, she had a moment to feel a bit of unsure. It didn’t last long, an orange truck with blinking yellow lights pulled up behind her. 
It was an extremely pleasant young man. Full facial hair with a friendly smile. He quickly jacked up the driver’s side. Chatting with him through the drizzle, she explained this model doesn’t come with a spare! It only has a compressor in the back. He asked if she wanted him to try to fix it. He handed her a small piece of flat blue metal less than 1/2”. There’s your culprit. He took her tire back to his truck and was back within 30 seconds. That tiny piece of metal had sliced the whole bottom to side of the tire. Let me call my boss, he hollered as he headed back to his truck.
Before, she knew it, this giant white truck pulled up. It was as the young guy had said during their conversation, George, or as they called him, Grandpa. He popped his head in her window and said, let’s get you into my truck and we shall call around and see if we can find a tire. 
The cutest, little, Jack Russell, was napping behind the front bucket seat. George/grandpa asked, “Who gave you, our number?” She answered,” all I have are the numbers.”  Oddly, Karen felt totally safe and almost relaxed. He made three phone calls, gave her a guesstimate of what a new comparable tire would cost, asked would that be ok? He chuckled, they don’t carry your kind of tires around here. 
OK he said, let’s go. I said so the tire sounds workable, do they have a lady’s room? He gave her a friendly smile and replied, “Sure do.”  Obviously, this was not an abnormal thing.  As they drove to the tire place, I told him what a pleasant, polite young man his guy was. He said, he has a little 1 month old baby. They chatted amiably.
