What is outstanding, though, is that it is precisely becuase of God’s goodness and generous nature that the rebuk in the Episle is so harsh. “If the believer had consulted the Lord for wisdom in how to act, God would have given it to them freely, thus guiding them to the proper generous behavior. ”   But because their faith is restricted to their own well-being and does not see beyond that, because they judge others by their appearances and not by God’s standards and have never in the first place taken on the nature of the God their profess to have faith in.  Addiotnally, James warsn the beleivers that “at day’s end, to ‘complain about another’ imitates the same self-absorbed outlook as does refusing mercy from the poor, of defaming another teacher, or the exploitation of others. These are all foolish acts since they fail to act in light of God’s coming triumph. 
The Epistle of James has had a controversial history that it has survived proving its worth to the canon and our lives. There are those who disputed its place in the Bible over misunderstanding the harmonious agreement that the epistle has with Pauline theology. This controversy has left the Epistle a contested book or antilegomena for centuries, but it does not have to continue in our hearts today. When we study the scope of Jamesian theology in its context and then consider its grand contributions to the rest of the canon the value of the epistle cannot then be quantified. The teachings of James offer us a Biblical window on divine healing, ethical behavior and treatment of other that are unparalleled in the New Testament. We are also given in the epistle a grand methodology of teaching on the foundation of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. This pattern in James also calls us to be a follower of him even to the enduring suffering in the stance of wisdom. This paper’s final resolve is to thank our great God for including James in our Bible for our benefit. The New Testament canon would be incomplete without it.  
