Partnership, unity, and agreement in the Trinity should be a foundational example for the church in mission as a whole worldwide. To be overcome are the obstructions of denominations are an obstruction. There should be a synergy of the Sprit for the church as a whole to see itself perhaps through the paradigm of an organism over separate organizations. Every part is having a real sense of being a small, integrated part of a larger whole. This unity is the example set by missio Dei, the trinity in unity, in mission. Before agreement and unity can take place there needs to be “heart transplant;” there needs to be a model shift to a Trinitarian relational viewpoint that infuses into every plan and action. Studying the Trinity reveals how the Persons of the Godhead interact and work together for the purpose of God.  The partnership of the church in missions is rooted in the Trinity. It was becoming the answer to the prayer of Jesus two thousand years ago: “My prayer is not for them alone. I also pray for those who will believe in me through their message, that all of them may be one, Father, just as you are in me and I am in you. May they also are in us so that the world may believe that you have sent me.”
The church must cease from confusing uniformity with unity. Sameness is not oneness.   At least in one respect diversity is Trinitarian. The Three-in-One and One-in-Three reveal that differences in the function do not indicate a difference in purpose or schism in unity. We see in the Bible that the Body of Christ is made up of different parts and that The Holy Spirit gives diversities of gifts but the same Spirit. We understand that there are differences of administration but the same Lord. and also, that there are diversities of operations but the same God. Diversity is from God. There is wonderful unity in the Godhead as to their relationship and as to their purpose. 
For missional living to organically occur, each believer in the body of Christ should grow in maturity from positions of dependency and independence to interdependence. So to should each place of worship move beyond independent organizations to interdependent relationships with the larger whole for the missional model to be embraced. The church is not an organization competing with other organizations, but a living breathing spiritual organism that calls for greater connection to Christ’s body already in mission.   The act of creation and the salvation of humanity reveals this unity of the Godhead. In like fashion, each Christian as part of the Body of Christ functions in missions. We (individuals, churches, denominations, mission agencies, etc.) need to see ourselves as interdependent and interconnected parts of the One Body. Without missiological purpose, a church will struggle for life. And without a missiological lens for definition, the Church is a misnomer. The local Church is, in essence, God’s missionary people. When the local church understands its identity and purpose, it realizes that it exists to reach out in mission to the world and will become what they already are by faith.
