This paper has admittedly shown that the canonicity of the Epistle of James has endured seasons dispute. From being called a disputed or antilegomena to an epistle of straw, James has been one of the most scrutinized books of the Bible. Moreover, yet we should take note its enduring content speaks something of its qualitative essence. The Holy Spirit chose this letter intentionally to convey truth to us that jointly completes the canonical picture of New Testament theology. Moreover, that begs the question. The Bible would not be complete without the wisdom paraenesis of James. We would not have the full picture in the New Testament concerning the relationship of faith, works, and justification. Additionally, the Canon is strengthened by the social injustices that the epistle speaks to. We know that they are addressed by Our Lord Jesus Christ in the gospels, but this was before the Church was launched and believers spread out in the diaspora to face brand new ethical issues. The Epistle of James is invaluable in its truths to answering all of these questions and more.	
In James, we are given a methodological pattern for teaching that has a praxis on the words of Jesus. The benefits of this are tremendous for homiletics. If James were not included in the canon, a great model would be lost for teaching and preaching. Also, consider the implications that referring to the teachings of Christ in this way has on expressing the deity of Jesus Christ. If his teachings are worthy in this way to be followed, then James is calling us to become true followers by referring to His teaching.  
A major theological contribution that James makes to the New Testament is its ethical focus. In a theological framework in which the Lord works to correct transgression and oppression, the concept that the Lord is near would could be a consolation or a dire warning.  In James control of the tongue is a fundamental ethical and spiritual concern, on par with the solidarity of the poor.  Teaching concerning the tongue is found throughout the New Testament, and yet it is continuously existent in the Epistle of James. A careful study is going through the letter line-by-line reveals that the ethics of speech saturate the epistle. In fact, some forty-six of the epistles one hundred and eight verses touch upon ethics of speech in one manner or another.  In other words, two out of every five verses in James regard moral speech.  The ethical contributions to the New Testament canon have both individual and coporate benefits. Timothy Johnson, notes that 4:1-14 and 5:1-6 show how distorted desires lead to the death of others.  The Epistle does not call the reader to ethical action for salvific puposes but as a result of them. It is saving faith that should produce ethical behavior. A strong lesson taught by James is that human acts of mercy are essential to attaining God’s mercy in the eschatological judgment.  
 In James we learn that true saving faith is one which emulates the very nature of God. The believer who shows mercy toward the helpless of society have adopted God’s long-stated heart for the widows and orphans and so ethically acts as God himself acts.  By neglecting to care for someone in dire need but instead giving them an ambiguous wish of wellness this person reveals that the generous nature of God has not saturated their own and that they have not been transformed into his likeness as described in 1:5 and 1:17.  
