If the church is to respond to the Great Commission appropriately, it must first respond to the Spirit in mission. The church must rely on the Holy Spirit for a proper contextualization and for the guidance to communicate an uncompromising message with the relevant methodology. Dr. Rance defined proper contextualization this way, “Contextualization is the search for a means by which to communicate the gospel in a way with is understood by the receptor culture without accommodating to it.”  Contextualization calls for the balance of discernment from the Holy Spirit to avoid syncretism and worldliness. Within the culture are redemptive analogies  can be used to reach a people group; however, we must not become “drunks to minister to alcoholics.'  The church must rely on the Holy Spirit for direction and power as all of its members are called to partake in missions. The church must also be intentional about giving sacrificially and committing to mission as a labor of love without becoming self-reliant. 
Unfortunately, Pentecostal churches sometimes can miss the point of the Spirit’s power. The Holy Spirit was given to empower the church to be a witness to the nations, not just to have an Upper Room experience. But when the church makes a commitment to prayer and is directed by the Holy Spirit’s guidance to the scriptures the church can rediscover the biblical mandate for missions and become empowered to do so. When the church seeks the Spirit, it’s heart is transformed centrifugally. As a result of the transforming power of the Holy Spirit church is no longer about “us” and what “we can do.” Ecclesiology no longer takes precedence over Christology and Missiology.  
The baptism in the Holy Spirit is not emotionalism or some other human reaction to the Spirit’s presence. Human personalities are different, and learned responses vary. What is essential is the reality of the impartation of divine power focused in witness and service. There are those who equate Pentecostalism with exuberance in worship or emotional behavior. While it would be unwise to belittle the significance of human emotions or lively worship patterns, these are not the essence of Pentecostalism. The heart of Pentecostalism is the supernatural empowerment of believers so that they may bear witness of Christ to the nations of the world. 
The church discovers itself in the pursuit of Christ while joining him in his mission. According to David J. Bosch, "mission is not primarily an activity of the church, but an attribute of God. God is a missionary God."  This concept of missiological cadence places God at the head and not the tail of every potential activity considered by the body of Christ. Reflecting on this paradigm, one wonders; how often does the church pray that God blesses what it does rather than doing what he has already blessed? Additionally, the church can become so busy doing what it considers good at the expense of what the great of what God is doing. Are we joining with God in His great activity or are we still petitioning that He join us in ours? In this way, we must have discernment. Our good may be the enemy of God’s great in mission and thereby be revealed even to be sinful. An obvious example from scripture is that of Saul from Tarsus, who discovered on the road to Damascus, that his mission, which he believed was good, was not God’s mission which was great. He was blind spiritually before he was blinded physically. 
