Arthur Glasser said, “The whole Bible, both Old, and New Testaments is a missionary book, the revelation of God’s purpose and action in mission in human history.”  The Bible must be read and understood missiologically for the church to grasp it’s calling.  Missio Dei has always been a redemptive blessing of the nations of the world diachronically. Missio Dei has been active in redemptive work between the era of the apostles and the era of modern missions. The historical perspective of missio Dei testifies to the significance of understanding history to appropriately discern the future, particularly that of any mission enterprise. Finally, belief in the necessity of Spirit baptism to empower candidates for the missio Dei as well as spiritual disciplines for those called to join God in mission. 
In the Bible, we discover a mission that God has had since before the foundation of the world and empowerment that compels us to join the missio Dei in God’s redemptive pursuit of the nations. Pentecostal biblical reflection done in the midst of ministry sharpens understanding of the Bible and emboldens further witness to the God who is for all nations. The mission of God is reviled to us in God’s word diachronically (dia – across), and (chronos - time).  That is, tracing the mission of God throughout successive time periods to demonstrate that God’s plan has always been a redemptive blessing of the nations. The Bible cannot be properly understood be understood aside from missions since God has always been on mission. All of the scriptures point view toward the theme of God’s promise to bless the nations through the promised seed. It is as Christian believers recognize God’s mission that they may purpose to participate in fulfilling that mission. Arthur F Glasser in his book, “Announcing the Kingdom: The Story of God's Mission in the Bible” succinctly makes this observation. 
Since our definition of all things should come first from God’s Word, and God’s word is a missionary book, and the unity of Scriptures attests to the theme of missions, the first task is to investigate some examples of missio Dei throughout the Scriptures. In Stephen’s defense to the Sanhedrin in Acts 7:9 -50 demonstrates from the Law that God has always been on a mission, and those who refuse to join with Him in mission are the truly disobedient ones. One of Stephen’s main arguments was to prove that God’s dominion “included the whole earth, not just the land of Israel.” We find fundamental examples of this principle from the scripture in Stephen’s speech. Consider “Where had God first appeared to Abraham? It was in Mesopotamia, When the time drew near for the promise to be fulfilled, God appeared to Moses—not in Israel but the land of Midian.” Then Moses “‘did wonders and miraculous signs’” for forty years—not in Israel, but in Egypt.” York reveals to us that, though Stephen is killed, “Paul’s later theological writings concerning God, the Messiah, and the Church are all consistent with the foundations laid in Stephen’s speech.” 
