The Trinity is displayed clearly in many triadic texts in the New Testament that call the church to join the work of the Trinity in mission. The purpose of this paper is not to argue the merits of the Trinity but to fundamentally identify “One God-in-Three” work in mission and to connect the church to join the work of the Trinity in missio Dei. One model of this can be clearly seen in the words of Jesus as he addresses the disciples in Matthew 28:19-20. “Therefore go and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and the Holy Spirit, and teaching them to obey everything I have commanded you. And surely I am with you always, to the very end of the age.” To emphasize the concept of the One-in-Three, the “name” in verse 19 is singular while it is the “name” of the three persons.
In Paul’s writings, another example exists.“But we ought always to thank God for you, brothers loved by the Lord, because from the beginning God chose you to be saved through the sanctifying work of the Spirit and through belief in the truth. He called you to this through our gospel that you might share in the glory of our Lord Jesus Christ.” Thessalonians 2:13-14
We find in each of these examples the work of the Trinity in our lives; saving us, sanctifying us but also sending us. Consequently, we are not saved nor sanctified to sit but saved for sending and being sent. Furthermore, we are not saved by good works but unto the good work of joining with the work of the Trinity in sharing the same gospel that saved us. Notice, that it is not one person of the Trinity alone that saves us and then another person of the trinity that sends us solitarily. God is one God in saving and one God in calling us to join him in mission.  The Trinitarian nature of Missio Dei brings the persons of the Godhead into application in missionary theology. J.A. Kirke elucidates it this way, “Evangelism is God’s work long before it is our work. The Father prepares the ground; the Son gives the invitation, and the Spirit prompt the person to respond in repentance and faith to the good news.” 
Centering on the work and movement of the trinity in mission is the concept of missio Dei. This conception calls for a paradigm shift in our praying from asking God to move in our services to realizing that God is already moving and we must join in service to him. The church begins to move in mission with the triune God that is already at work in the world. A new prayer might be asking for guidance. Where is the Lord moving triune in mission? Since we are indeed created for His pleasure and not vice versa, shouldn’t we make finding his movement and making his mission the center instead of asking him to move and focus on us? 
