Moving towards permanent employment made sense to both companies and employees alike, especially during Japan’s high growth years where a strong economy existed. For example, employers had the advantages of loyalty and low turnover rates, while employees enjoyed job security and clear paths to advancement. With the economy already doing well, these positives helped Japan decide on moving toward permanent employment. 
At the core of permanent employment is the advantage of sticking being with a company for life, creating a bond, or a sort of harmony between employee and company. "The lifetime employment system, cemented in Japan’s postwar economic boom, bound dutiful workers and paternalistic employers together, producing a mutual loyalty (and labor harmony) rarely seen in the West,”. This harmony is something that is difficult to measure in statistics but is an important thing to have in the workplace. When you have all of your employees working together to accomplish the same goal, problems are minimal and things are completed in an efficient manner. This is an important part of the Japanese version of capitalism that puts emphasis on the collective effort, instead of focusing on the individual. That, along with the loyalty created by permanent employment, creates harmony in the workplace. “Promoting teamwork indeed, the old approach certainly has its virtues, including the fostering of allegiance among employees—not a bad thing when you're trying to promote teamwork throughout the organization,”. I think that this is a much underrated part of the permanent employment system because when employees are not afraid of losing their jobs, they can concentrate on their assigned task and work towards not letting the company down and breaking the harmony.
Continuing on from that note, perhaps the reason why Japanese workers happily embraced technological changes and advancements was since they did not have worry about a machine replacing them. Nowadays, many jobs (such as manufacturing jobs) were given to machines to handle, which limits or even erases the need for humans in such industries. This is why permanent employment has been so important in Japan for many years. 
In other countries where this system does not exist, employees whose jobs may be in jeopardy would start to look for work elsewhere and their minds would be in other places, which would have a negative effect in their overall performance. On the other hand, in Japan while machines and robots are used in the workplace as well, Japan differs in that workers are simply moved to a different job within the same company and do not have to worry about job security in those such situations. This is not just some sort of unspoken agreement between workers and bosses; there are actual pieces of legislation that make such practices official. According to Wiseman and Nishiwaki, regulations, laws, and court decisions prevent laying off full-time workers in Japan.
For those that stay within the permanent employment system their entire career, there are clear benefits such as job promotions and regular raises. For example, a so called nenkou wage distributes rewards depending on one’s age and length of service. As long as the worker stays with the company for life, he will eventually work his way up the corporate ladder and will be compensated accordingly. Being a regular employee literately pays off, as about 34.4% of normal full-time employees get regular promotions, compared to only 7.7% of part-time workers. 
