 	As Hastiin and the Protectors are being referenced to as being relics of the Fifth world, there are still concerns about the environment in the Sixth world, just with no practical environmental activism. Because the Big Water allowed for there to be a sense of rebirth and revision of the “ecological Indian,” Maggie and Kai never take active steps to getting rid of the corrupt officials or providing assistance to those in places like Tse Bonito in order to undercut the capitalist structures in place, despite pointing out the flaws in their construction. However, there is still the destruction of the environment, such as in Black Mesa, which Maggie describes as a “part of the rez [that] had boomed with jobs and lease payments and royalties. But with the money came the crooked lawyers, the double dealing, the forced relocations, the dirty water, the cancer”. The environment becomes even more inhospitable to those who live there, where people could come in and harm Indigenous bodies and ruin their communities without the consequences that should come with that. But because the Protectors are seemingly relics of when the threat was external and not internal as it is with the Tribal council, there are no Protectors to ensure the environment isn’t being destroyed in the first place; rather, the idea is that the environment can be fixed retroactively in the Sixth world. 
	It is Tah, Kai’s grandfather and Maggie’s close friend, who suggests that the environment can be fixed by Kai’s clan powers. Before Maggie even meets Kai, Tah sets up him as some sort of potential savior of Dinétah, suggesting “he’s going to bring back the old ways. The Weather ways. Help us. Help the Diné. Maybe help all people. […] To call the rain. Break this drought. Maybe heal the land from the Big Water”. In suggesting that Kai would heal the Earth for everyone, acting with the community and land in mind unlike the Tribal Council, he could be thought as being a Fifth world “ecological Indian” who is inherently attached to the environment and it’s welling. However, since he is in the Sixth world and would not have had developed his clan powers without the Big Water and the reawakening of the Diné gods on Earth, whatever solution Kai can provide would not be able to restore the Earth to before the Big Water. This hope being placed upon Kai suggests that one Indigenous man could heal the planet in a more efficient way than what was being done before the Big Water 
	In the Fifth world, in an attempt to protect their land from a more violent colonization, multinational corporations and greed, and the environmental impacts that come with the irresponsible exploitation of the Earth’s natural resources, those living within Dinétah came to represent the “ecological Indian.” But after the Big Water and the move into the Sixth’ world, when capitalism is reinstated by the Indigenous community despite the ability to start fresh, the “ecological Indian” begins to be revised, where everyone acts out the Fifth world’s “ecological Indian” as environmentalist actions become necessary in order to survive within Dinétah. But while capitalism and environmental concern do survive the Big Water and make it to the Sixth world, the idea of being the “ecological Indian” as it stands does not as Indigenous communities begin to act out environmentalism by accident, in the interest of self-preservation. The earth may not need protecting from them as much anymore, but it does need healing, which is a role that is suggested to be assigned to Kai, suggesting that he is meant to act as an ecological savior for the Dinétah, similar to how Maggie protects Dinétah from monsters. The ecological Indian, then, is revised to suggest that it isn’t highlighting how in touch Indigenous people are with the environment around them, but rather that they can and will find solutions to the problems created by Indigenous and non-Indigenous alike and will work to make the world more hospitable for those in the future. 
