Bill sets himself apart from the people he feels he is competing with, but also broadens the definition of who he has a problem with, and it appears to be everyone who isn’t him, who doesn’t have that toughness. These young adults are requiring people like Bill to work for them, to provide the services and clean up after them, while simultaneously devaluing the work that he does, or so Bill has convinced himself. Like the Costa Ricans who stitch baseballs, Bill is exploited for their means, always working in some sort of servitude, having relinquished his control in Vietnam and prison. 
	 When Bill has his moment of reflection, then, it is him reflecting upon what the world is demanding of his body. 
 Bill straightens out his appearance, but it doesn’t matter because it’s distorted by nature of what it is being reflected on. The space that he is in, both his job, but also the environment surrounding his job, where he “tells himself he means more,” is deliberately broken so that he can never see what he truly looks like, only getting a fragmented sense. This fragmentation serves to keep him in one place, where even if he is trying to give himself meaning, he has the sinking awareness that he is alone, partially in truth but also the construction of isolation he provides himself. Bill looks at his body and can’t see his interiority like other characters get the chance to, but instead sees something that he identifies as him without it reflecting the exact image. 
	Even though he isn’t explicitly aware of how his body is being kept imperfect as a means of control, or how his job is fashioning him into a tool they can use, Bill does have a sense of what led him to that moment. He points out that “he’s okay, he’s making it. He could easily not be making it. He’s almost always not been making it,” where ‘making it’ seems to refer to many things. It relates immediately to his time in prison, where he has managed to avoid the trouble that would lock him up, and he is sober, unlike after being dishonorably discharged. But it also suggests that if he is ‘making it’ then those he’s in conflict with, the young adults, are not making it, perhaps because they lack the toughness he has. It suggests that ‘making it’ is the result of turning his body into a tool and submitting himself to be controlled by another entity, even though he had resisted it earlier. And if Bill, through isolating himself and ignoring the exploitation of his body while being distanced from his Indigenous identity, is ‘making it,’ it suggests that there are larger powers that will seek to profit off this. 
	Bill’s existence is so linked to his job and to his body being used for other means that he is only ever presented while at work at the Coliseum. 
 Bill can’t separate his dying moment from his job, and in fact, would most likely die on the floor of the coliseum. His final thoughts aren’t just about being a good employee and having an acute understanding how to do his job well, but how he will be erased from the history of the place. 
