The issue I have chosen to research in the natural sciences is Genetically Modified Organisms. This issue is interesting to me because it is a topic that I will like to know more about, and it is an issue that I do not know a lot about. I also am interested in it because genetically modified organisms affect humans directly, negatively and positively.
“Reproductive modification in forest plantations: impacts on biodiversity and society” is the first source I will use to answer my question deals with genetic modification to tree plantations. This genetic modification is causing pollen contamination to non-GE products such as honey. I chose this source because it is a report that is published from an Academic Center. There are 7 authors, which allows the report to be unbiased. Other sources that I have researched don't have as many scholarly references such as this report. 
“Genetic engineering risks” is the second source. It answers my question by giving a general definition and easy definition of cross breeding between plants and the environment. I chose this source because it gives me a greater understanding of the effects of cross breeding and uncontrolled growth. Compared to my other sources, this source seems to be general in nature, but very easy to understand. 	
“ARE GMOS GOOD OR BAD SEEDS IN THE DEVELOPING WORLD?: A DISCUSSION OF THE GROWING ROLE OF DEVELOPING COUNTRIES IN THE DEBATE OVER CLIMATE CHANGE AND THE LOSS OF BIODIVERSITY” is my third source. It answers my question in regard to describing biodiversity and why it is important to the environment. I chose this source because it is an in-depth look into biodiversity, and how we can save it. GMO's do help with biodiversity, but it can also harm it. This is relevant to my topic because different scientists believe in different ways of preserving biodiversity.
My scientific question is, “How do genetically modified organisms create crossbreeding and uncontrolled growth in natural plants and crops?” 
An audience I think that would be interested in my issue of GMO plants affecting wild plants and crops would be people interested in knowing where their food comes from. This audience could be people that eat organic only foods and natural foods. The audience would have to be worried about GMO crops getting introduced into the wild and affecting natural, organic crops. I believe that if I talk to them and influence them that GMO's are affecting the foods they eat, then it could open their eyes to this issue.
A principle that I have seen are the effects of genetically modified organisms on natural plants and crops, and how they affect the environment. The principles of cause and effect are evident in my research because when you look at how GMO’s can crossbreed with natural plants and have negative effects on the environment, it is apparent. Another cause and effect factor is how the GMO’s and transported from GMO plants to natural plants. An example of this is in flowering plants, the male genetic material is found in their pollen. When the bees pollinate these flowers, they bring the pollen from one plant to another. If the genetic material reaches another plant it is able to breed and for seeds and reproduce. In areas such as bees transporting the GMO plants pollen to natural plants, this can allow the GMO plants and the natural plants to breed unknowingly.
