Genetically modified organisms are by definition, "are living organisms whose genetic material has been artificially manipulated in a laboratory through genetic engineering. This creates combinations of plant, animal, bacteria, and virus genes that do not occur in nature or through traditional crossbreeding methods." My presentation is based on how GMO plants can crossbreed with natural plants. This issue relates to the natural sciences because I am studying how GMO's can affect natural products. The natural sciences deal with the physical world, and include biology which is what we are focusing on in this presentation.
My audience is impacted by my issue because the general audience consumes foods that could be crossbred with GMO products. They should care about GMO's in their foods because when a product is labeled "all-natural" or "organic" they should be receiving the product they purchased. GMO foods are generally cheaper and less nutritious for consumption. We should push for DNA testing routinely to verify the labels standards. My college peers should care about biology since they are learning about natural sciences. GMO’s can mutate natural crops and plants, thus changing their biology.
The empirical evidence I found that supported my stance on GMO plants crossbreeding with natural plants is how the GMO’s are transported from GMO plants to natural plants. An example of this is in flowering plants, the male genetic material is found in their pollen. When bees pollinate these flowers, they bring the pollen from one plant to another. If the genetic material reaches another plant it is able to breed and for seeds and reproduce. In areas such as bees transporting the GMO plants pollen to natural plants, this can allow the GMO plants and the natural plants to breed unknowingly. 
GMO's crossbreeding with natural plants matters to me personally because I enjoy eating organic crops and foods. I pay extra for these foods for my family and myself so we are getting the most nutritious foods possible. I chose this topic for my research because I believe it is a problem that not many people know about, and I wanted to spread the knowledge of how this can occur. My research project has impacted the way I think about my issue because it has allowed me to understand the issue of crossbreeding more substantially. When I started thinking like a scientist it allowed me to research what certain scientific terms meant. This allowed me to understand the topic more in depth. Also, by learning how the GMO plants crossbreed with natural plants it made much more sense to me how this problem can arise. 
