There is no doubt that the owners of a house worry about keeping it to feel comfortable in it; that well-being helps us to feel good, and that other people who visit our house also feel comfortable. It would be illogical to think that those who inhabit it could perform acts that deteriorate it; however, that is exactly what happens with humanity, and its home, the planet earth.
Man is destroying his own home with indiscriminate acts of pollution and unlimited violence against his habitats and animals.
According to studies by NASA and other agencies, the strongest signs that global warming and pollution are affecting our environment begin with an increase in the Earth's temperature by an average of .9 degrees Celsius; this happens because of the amount of carbon dioxide emissions into the atmosphere.
Most of the increase in temperature has happened in the last 35 years, with the year 2016 taking the record of the year with the number of hottest months. The same emissions are absorbed in ocean waters, and as a consequence the surface layers of them are 30% more acidic now than before the start of the Industrial Revolution.
A report by the UN Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change provides data that must be taken into account by governments: "The continued emission of greenhouse gases will cause more warming and long-term changes in all components of the climate system, that increases the likelihood of severe, widespread and irreversible consequences for people and ecosystems.
The dangers of climate change are likely to be high or very high by the end of the 21st century, "says the report.
On the other hand is the warming of the oceans, as a consequence of the increase in global temperature. This phenomenon has a severe impact on the biodiversity of the seas because many species of fish and mammals need colder waters to live comfortably.
In the same way, and also due to the increase of the global temperature, the Antarctic ice sheets diminish their area over the years, the snowy mountains lose ice, the glaciers are being collected, and the level of the waters in the oceans are increasing, endangering many coastal cities.
