When we think of the 2004 U.S. Republican Congress, do we think of attractive young men and women who are half naked and voting each other off a fake survival island? Perhaps not, but in the article “Voting Democracy off the Island: Reality TV and the Republican Ethos”, Francine Prose asserts that Reality TV stars and the 2004 Republican Congress members have more in common than one would think. These “stars” are put in situations where they must compete against other contestants and win in any way possible. The author claims that the guiding principles of Reality TV (individualism, deception, cut-throat competitiveness, the overall desire to win by any means necessary) reflect the techniques and strategies used by the 2004 Republican Congress. Prose adds that the increase in popularity of these shows have changed the way easily impressionable Americans view politics, morals, and ethics. In America, there is no greater demographic to influence than young adults, especially those in college. How is the greatest nation on the planet supposed to progress when our college students do not seem to care about it? As a college student, I see the lack of caring about current events among my peers, friends, and even myself. I believe that the negative values of egocentric reality television creates a warped version of democracy where university students are made to believe that they should only look for their own interests instead of caring about politics, controversial topics, or current politician's questionable ethics. 
The points made about indifferent college students raise many refutations and questions. Just because college students do not seem to care about politics, it does not mean that students are entirely apathetic about all social topics. An International Center for Media & the Public Agenda at the University of Maryland study noted that students were still interested in “the economy, education and social issues such as gay marriage and abortion”. The distinction between these topics and government politics is that they are more relevant to students or their peers, giving them a personal interest. Morley Winograd, who wrote, Millennials, Millennial Momentum: How a New Generation is Remaking America, says that there are increasing rates of volunteer work after high school and argues that “saying you want to be wealthy doesn’t necessarily mean you are self-absorbed”. Winograd makes a valid point about the need for wealth, as there are myriad reasons for wanting to be wealthy. But he does not seem to take into account that students are often pressured into doing volunteer work. Examples are public schools making community service mandatory for students for graduation, or parents having them volunteer so that their children will appeal to colleges in their applications. Some will disagree that young people do care about debatable topics, and want to see something done about changing it. Unfortunately, the truth tends to reveal that most do not care enough to invest their time or energy into a cause.
Now more than ever, American college students are generally apathetic towards politics and what the current events in the United States. This indifference towards politics has a stark contrast between current college students and the student activists of the 1960s. Whereas the Vietnam War spurred infamous protests, our nation's current tend not to focus too heavily on politics. A study done by International Center for Media & the Public Agenda at the University of Maryland surveyed 200 undergraduates about their interests in politics and how often, if at all, they read news about current U.S. events or elections. The study concluded that students only read about politics for an average of thirty minutes or less per week. The overwhelming consensus was that “they'd be more likely to pay attention to politics if they saw the direct relevance of the election to their lives. And most didn't make a significant connection “. This study is relevant because it shows that the newest generation of voters in America does not care about politics and are only interested in their own involvements. From advertisements to reality television, Americans are led to believe that their choices and interests should focus on themselves. 
