     Those who cite Chris McCandless as a hero should look at the facts, as they are placing idealism in front of logic. Much like how Tolstoy and London had their problems, Chris had his issues as well. McCandless had a great philosophy on life and society. He attempted to shun wealth and money and follow his dreams. Despite Chris's great story, the fact that he died horribly is often overlooked. Chris had shortcomings of his own just like how his own personal heroes. He dealt with severe parental issues, and many point to this as the source of his erratic behavior. McCandless was easily manipulated by the books he read and at times completely lacked good judgment. In the process of following his dreams, Chris never took into account the amount of people he hurt emotionally. The man even acknowledges that he was wrong. Initially, he tells Ronald Franz that happiness does not come from human relationships. However, he contradicts himself towards the end of his life when he states that happiness is only real when shared.  
     Although many people admire McCandless and his bravery, his over-confidence and consequent death defined his legacy. It is easy for young and impressionable college students to idolize McCandless. With today’s ever growing dependence on technology, students must think that it is impossible to fall off the grid and live outside the norms of society. However, his story should serve as a lesson to avoid indulging in the same unrealistic ideals that Chris had. Like Shah and Abagnale, McCandless was a very smart person. But he was also a young man with complicated personal issues and extreme views on life that prevented him from correcting his mistakes. Chris attempted to grow spiritually, but never gained knowledge from his faults. He also kept his distance emotionally from the people he met on the road, and never allowed himself to get too close to them. Chris should be admired for his courage but condemned for his impracticality. In the present, college students should understand that they can display determination and find their way in life without hurting themselves or others. It is one thing to dream, but the need to think logically and prepare are principles many should learn. Hopefully those who hope to travel like McCandless will do so and be able to impart their lessons onto the next generation of students.
