Susan demonstrates a high level of competency in the skills and knowledge required. She clearly understands the purposes, objectives, practices and procedures of the department. She processes all kinds of payroll forms and handles salary payments appropriately, and maintains proper accounting procedures.  Susan needs a minimal amount of supervision to perform her duties. She effectively uses the resources and tools available to her. 

Sally is not always as productive as expected for her job. It sometimes takes her longer than necessary to complete work and she occasionally misses deadlines (e.g. printing and distributing W2 information). She works a bit slower than the position requires, and so does not always achieve her established goals. I suggest her to adhere to the deadlines strictly and improve her quantity level. I am confident that Sally can do better.

Alice displays a strong dedication and commitment to quality assurance. She excels in detecting flaws or imperfections. In particular, she does an excellent job in posting and managing the leave records so that each employee is aware of his/her leave available and leave used. She consistently and carefully monitors her work to ensure its quality. The work Alice produces always meets the standards for accuracy and completeness. She looks for ways to improve quality.

Ingrid takes an active role in resolving conflicts before they get out of hand. She usually establishes and maintains good working relationships. Her outlook is generally positive and her manner is pleasant. She assists and supports her co-workers. Ingrid works cooperatively in group situations and displays a harmonious and cooperative spirit. However, too often she has exhibited a lack of tact in communicating with co-workers, especially in requesting for resource allocation. I am confident that Megan can do better by consulting her superior in critical situations.   

Jane usually communicates effectively with co-workers. She is dedicated to keeping other informed and listening with understanding. In most occasions, she can speak and write clearly. But, in some critical situations such as handling employee’s enquiries about overtime payments, her verbal communication skill needs to improve. By learning to be a more empathetic listener, I am confident that Jane can show improvement in this area.   

Megan always shows an initiative in suggesting innovations to improve operations or streamline procedures. I really love her ideas which helped improve the procedures in collecting and gathering hourly time cards. Megan is able to define and analyze complex problems. She develops and implements solutions with minimal direction. Her high initiative would definitely contribute a lot to the success of the department.  

Jane is dedicated to promoting positive working relationships and harmony among co-workers. For her better advancement, I suggest her to actively participate more in team work, such as in working with the Human Resources department to streamline the procedures on transferring personnel records (e.g. new hires, termination of employment etc.) to facilitate more accurate and timely payments to employees. 

Alice is skilled in the use of Payroll Mate, Word, Excel and PowerPoint.  She always makes use of the online resources in an efficient and effective manner. I believe both Alice herself and the company would benefit from her learning Access database to assist in producing more meaningful and effective reports for the employees.    
