In this approach, management looks at the number of minority employees in different level positions within the company. Using this approach, management can see if a certain minority group is being underrepresented in certain jobs or levels. With this information, management can investigate and resolve the problem and become aware of why a group is being underrepresented.

While deciding whether or not to promote Joyce, Carl should look to the numbers of past employees within the Vice President position and evaluate how many men and how many women have held the position. If there has not been a woman in the position, Carl should investigate why women are being underrepresented in top management.

In order to empower employees, they must feel comfortable within the working environment to stand up for themselves and for their co-workers if a discriminatory situation arises. This is made possible through management establishing a zero tolerance discrimination policy. 

Subordinates and management should be able to comfortably confront actions they see as discriminatory within the workplace. Joyce should feel like she can confront her issue of being discriminated against for being a mother and a female without fearing that she will be reprimanded and not promoted. Carl has the power to establish an organizational culture by being in a top management position. By expressing that the company will not accept discrimination, he would be working towards the zero tolerance policy. 

Rewards are incentives for employees to act according to how the company would like them to act. In this situation, the company should be enforcing diversity management through rewarding manager’s for taking proactive measures to promote a workplace with diversity. For substantial positive work ethic towards managing diversity, managers would see an increase in their pay was a reward.

If another manager were to step in and mediate the situation between Carl and Joyce, they would have settled a diversity issue that could have lead to a lawsuit. In that situation, the mediator manager would get a bonus because they saved the company from enduring costly expenses from unnecessary litigation. 

Ongoing training encourages education to recognize and mediate discrimination. This is possible through training courses that include films, printed hand-outs, and role-play situations to uncover hidden stereotypes and how discrimination affects the workplace. This can take place within a professional environment or experiential environment where employees take time off of work to experience diversity, such as the community internship that UPS implemented. 

It is very important for Carl to break his gender schema about females and mothers. Ongoing training would be beneficial to Carl at both the professional and experiential levels, but most likely having experiential education would result in a long lasting impact. Just as UPS employees visited detention centers and AIDs hospitals, it would be valuable for Carl to see women in different settings. For example, he could take a two week leave from work in which he would visit a women and children’s homeless shelter, sit in on a support group for single parent families, and also visit PepsiCo where he might have a meeting with Indra Nooyi, CEO of PepsiCo and one of the few women in top corporate positions.
