    My biggest take away from the semester in regards to nutrition would have to just be a greater understanding of how diet can affect your health and life. Before the class I obviously understood that it was important, but I never really thought about it too much. I only thought of unhealthy foods as food that would make you fat. Another big take away was when you said some things such as low fat foods aren’t necessarily good for you and can cause disease. It’s hard to tell what’s really good and bad for you when the science is always changing and developing. A third take away would have to be the film where they said eating vegetarian can help people get through cancer. This is very interesting and although i’m not going to eat vegetarian there is definitely something to be said for what was shown in the film. My nutrition hasn’t really changed since the beginning of the class. This is mainly because I didn’t think I ate that bad before, and to be honest I don’t eat great, but it’s also not a very big deal to me because I feel like i’m in good health. It has made me more aware of my diet though and I hope to improve it. All of those earlier take aways had an impact on me especially the one about eating vegetarian. I definitely understand the importance of nutrition in regards to  my overall health better than I did before the class. Some of the quotes that were in the forks over knives movie I found most interesting where they said things like “the doctor of the future doesn’t treat disease with medicine but prevents it with nutrition.”
    From this semester I learned a lot about physical activity/exercise. I learned how important it was, and different ways and methods to stay healthy without hurting yourself. The different training methods like hiit were interesting because it’s a different way to work out and it effects your life differently than some other methods. It was also interesting to learn how weight training can help you lose fat, even though you may be putting on weight because of the muscle. I believe that a sedentary life is a just as bad as poor diet or anything else. I haven’t made any changes to my physical activity or exercise, I think i’ve actually gotten worse throughout the semester, but i’ve learned a lot that I hope to use to my advantage and turn things around. In a perfect world I would do all body weight exercises or whatever like pull up, push up, squats, and running a few days a week and I could make it happen but I am too lazy. I think I would look and feel better, and be able to accomplish more heavy lifting tasks at work, but i’m not sure it would benefit the people around me very much besides maybe motivate them.
