This experiment started by planting several seeds in a cells in a cube. The plants were then periodically watered, and maintained. Eventually, the plants grew up and the seeds were extracted, the newly extracted seeds were placed back into the cube’s cells and maintained until they were grown to an applicable height. At this point the color of the stems was collected to determine the phenotype of the father plant.
The mother had a green stem with the genotype gg, the f1 had the genotype of Pg with all purple stems, and the f2 where 30 green with genotype gg and 60 purple with the genotype Pg. Therefore the father was determined to have the genotype of PP and the phenotype of purple stem.
With the green determined to be recessive and purple determined to be dominated, it was concluded that the father was PP. Therefore PP and gg have Pg offspring, and those Pg go on to have PP Pg and gg offspring. This should result in a 75% 25% scenario of 75% of 25% green and 75% purple, but the data is a bit off.
The dominant allele was determined to be purple, while the recessive allele green. The genotype of the father plant was concluded to be PP, with the phenotype of purple. This was all determined through monohybrid crosses using the genotypes already determined, and no dihybrid crosses were needed. The first generation plants PP, and gg were homozygous, while the second generation were all heterozygous, Pg. To repeat, the mother was green, father purple. F1 all purple, while F2 mixed purple and green.
Any errors in this lab may have come from the plants growing wrong, or dying. The most likely errors would probably have to be human error where the plants were possibly not watered enough or too many seeds were placed in one cube. Real world applications include the works of Gregor Mendel, who used an experiment just like this to determine how traits are inherited, and get more information on how this can work in the human body.
The genotype and phenotype of the father plant were discovered, and assumed to be correct. Knowledge was gained and the lab is considered a success.
