    Japan and the United States have had a long and tough war so far, and the use of the Atomic bomb is the quickest way to end it without more casualties. The United States is the first country to have developed these weapons of mass destruction, and it is only right to give them a fair chance or warning before we drop the bomb directly on their cities, and if they do not surrender it is their fault, and the United States will set an example for all countries to develop these weapons in the future. Despite concerns expressed by some, atomic bombs should be be used in World War II because it will end the war quickly and give us a chance to save many lives.
    Dropping the bomb on an island before dropping it on the people of Japan will give the leaders if Japan a chance to save many of their people’s lives, as well as saving the United States the lives of their soldiers. It will also give the rest of the world an example of how to use the bomb, and show them the United States morals, as the Franck Report says “The military advantages and the saving of American lives achieved by the sudden use of the atomic bombs against Japan may be outweighed... From this point of view, a demonstration of the new weapon might best be made.” Showing them the power of the weapons the United States has developed will give them a chance to surrender before we decide to use the bombs on the cities of japan itself. This will also show other countries who might, sometime in the future develop weapons with the same power as the atomic bombs, that you should have some morals when it comes to dropping the atomic bomb, it will show them that you need to warn the leaders the devastation that these bombs will bring. Some people may complain that using the bomb on an island is a “waste of money”, but hundreds of thousands of lives are worth no amount of money, and if the leaders of Japan do not surrender then the death of their people is their fault, and the United States is not to blame.
    After the war is over, good relations with Japan should remain. If they do surrender after our demonstration, then they will understand how we spared their people when we could of slaughtered them, as the Franck Report says “the best possible atmosphere for the achievement of an international agreement could be achieved if America could say to the world, ‘ You see that sort of weapon we had but did not use.” and we should be on good relations with Japan. Should they not surrender, and we’re forced to bomb their cities, then the leaders of Japan should be at fault, and the people will not blame us, but blame their leaders. This may make it so the current leaders do not like the United States, but the people of Japan, and hopefully the upcoming leaders, will have good relations with the united states, for we spared their people.
    Overall, showing a demonstration of our power before we drop the bomb is the most effective way to show Japan the power we have, and can unleash on their people, while at the same time saving the morals of the United States, and potentially hundreds of thousands of lives.
