    Vietnam was not a rich country, they may of had some natural resources, such as rubber and iron, but they did not have wealth producing resources. Therefore, the wealth was most likely not distributed in Vietnam, the rich were rich and the poor were poor, as was the way in the countries surrounding them. Under communist leadership they would see the benefits that can come when their lifestyle increases, and the surrounding countries will also see this and realise they can do the same. This will encourage the Domino Theory, and have other countries fall to communism.
    People encouraged the uprising in Vietnam, right up until the point where they found out the new government may be communist, then they quickly jumped in to try and stop the new government. It had no concern for the people of Vietnam.For example, in 1963 a group of South Vietnamese military leaders overthrew the government and executed Diem. The United States did not take an active role in the coup (attempt to overthrow the government). But it did signal its support for the action, for it had come to believe that a change of leadership was necessary to save South Vietnam from collapse. The only part of the coup that reportedly upset U.S. officials was the execution of Diem.
    Eisenhower had supported the Vietnamese people uprising, until it took a communist turn. “Eisenhower had articulated the line of reasoning that came to be known as the domino theory, that the fall of one state of communism would lead to the next and the next being knocked over.” Then he strongly supported stopping them under the theory of the Domino effect, which will later be explained. Their intervention was about communism, if there was any sincere concern involved it was ignored to have the bigger problems dealt with. They quite simply had no concern to “save” the people until they realised that the new government would  be communist in which they quickly changed their opinion in fear of the Domino Theory, and When the Vietnamese Nationalist (and Communist-led) Vietminh army defeated French forces at Dien bien phu in 1954, the French were compelled to accede to the creation of a Communist Vietnam north of the 17th parallel while leaving a non-Communist entity south of that line. The United States refused to accept the arrangement. The administration of President Dwight D. Eisenhower undertook instead to build a nation from the spurious political entity that was South Vietnam by fabricating a government there.
    When analysing this topic it has to be taken into account the politics of the matter. It is not only that the United States wanted to stop communism, but they wanted to show their country that they wanted to stop communism. What is meant by this is that the Democratic party may of been more harsh on communism, and in particular communism in Vietnam, then they really felt for the simple reason to prove that they were not soft on communism. The Democrats were always known for not being as hard on communism as the Republicans, and being the current office holders at the time of the situation, they may of pushed the issues more than they actually believed for the simple reason of appealing to the public. Although it didn’t really work, U.S. involvement in the Vietnam War changed the American public’s perspective on the cold war and on how much the United States should be willing to pay in money and blood to attain foreign-policy goals. It also diminished public trust in the government.
