	The advantages of this energy source are immense, one of the most important contrasting points for this specific study can be seen when compared to the conventional practices in energy making. That is because most of the conventional factors in modern practices when it comes to making energy is the environmental degradation and resource availability whereas in this study the only thing needed for a successful hydro project consist of a continuous flow of water. Modern electricity generation from non renewable sources often requires combustion in order to generate electricity which leaves us with an ever increasing demand for energy while also requiring proper disposal of radioactive/potentially dangerous waste. In this scenario, the only thing that is needed for the production of hydroelectricity is an initial investment to put the concept together and the natural cycles to occur. Although the initial cost of setting something like this up can be relatively costly, one of the most important advantages is the fact that it is long lasting while requiring minimal maintenance. That is because of the hydrological cycle being heavily dependent on precipitation and most importantly a flowing water cycle which already exists in nature. Another positive environmental factor that also must be taken into account is that there is no demand for gas, coal, or even oil throughout the entire process which prevents the burning of 22 billion gallons of oil or 120 million tons of coal each year. One of the negative aspects behind such practice, is that hydrological practices often posses the possibility to overwhelm land and even disrupt certain wildlife; this threat to the biome is often more relative in certain spots than others. Whereas the most serious concern of this can be found in aquatic regions due to the fact that such changes can affect fish migration while restricting their natural pathways. Other environmental impacts consist of changes in reservoir and stream water quality as-well as often displacing local populations based on each specific geographical region, and although many of these hydropower processes itself is not polluting but they still do carry environmental and social impacts. Other public safety factors that should also be considered by it comes to this topic is the lifespan behind building these water dams; not too long ago there was a recent example of that in Brazil when a Vale Dam collapsed and resulted in absolute chaos throughout the regions connected to it. Events like this are often unpredictable and it is very unfortunate when hazardous catastrophes as such take place especially when not that much considerations have been accounted for in terms of emergency management and planning. These sorts of chaotic events are often unstoppable and irreversible due the fact that not only they can affect the environment but also have the potential to propose a great deal of social impacts in regions who mostly need it. 
