First to introduce the range of the existing hydropower industry, one must understand the production possibilities that have to be taken into consideration before anything is done. There are mainly two types of categories with several subcategories; with the first and most common being Inland sources such as the conventional diversion of water and hydrokinetic energy through natural streams or a pumped storage to produce an efficient production of electric energy. These practices have been long existing and are directly responsible for serving humanity through the mechanical rotation of turbines which can be used for practically everything. While on the other hand the use of oceanic waves has been going through an everlasting improvised cycle that aims to maximize sources such as tidal, waves current, thermal and even harnessing salinity for the sake of power. Today, as some of the mature technology has reached their peak in producing electricity; humanity is slowly shifting its current energy world distribution to renewable resources in order to alleviate other demand. For example, there is a large demand for hydro-electrical advancements since conventional methods often carry too many disadvantages relating to the environment etc.. While on the other hand, demand for cleaner sources primarily consists of how much can be supplied for what price. According to the Energy Information Administration, the total demand for the U.S. energy consumption by source for 2017 shows that while renewable energy only consisted of only 11% of the demand; hydroelectricity generation consisted of a total of 25% out of all renewables which allows it to add up to the combined energy consumed of the three major competitors in today's market which consist of wind, solar, and even biothermal. However on the global scale, it is clear that China is currently leading the world's production of hydroelectricity followed by Canada, Brazil, then the United States which still houses large potential for improvement over the coming years. Now before any conclusions are made about the feasibility of such a source, one may find themselves asking why is this the case and the answer for that would be very simple; and it involves the fact that most hydrothermal generation has to come from a flowing stream of water preferably with a naturally powerful stream. First, to expand on the hydroelectric power generation process it is important for the region to possess a strong flow force of water; preferably one with high falling distance. That is because the capacity to produce energy is often associated with the height it travels in order for the building up of water at a specific point to carry strong potential energy. This potential source can later be transformed to mechanical energy before being converted through the electromagnetic process and a rotating turbine to produce a viable source of electricity that can be moved through a transformer electrification process to be later used as the electricity we know today. This clarifies the importance of a productive stream and how that is needed for any of these functions to take place on a recurrent basis in order for a hydroelectric dam to be productive. 
