When it comes to evaluating the benefit and cost of this energy, one of the most relevant factors is the availability of this resource in comparison to other sources of electricity production. The examples and experiences can be amplified in specific conditions considering that no two water sources are the same and tend to change over the years; however older projects such as the man-made reservoirs constructed from 1911 to 1937 by the Wisconsin Valley Improvement Company have shown that man-made reservoirs often have a larger range of water movement flow which in turn creates a larger range of allowable water level limits and hence have been proven to consolidate a much greater usable storage capacity than other natural-lake reservoirs in the region. As a result, their five man-made reservoirs currently account for up to 73 percent of the system’s total usable reservoir storage in comparison to the other 16 natural-lake reservoirs that make up the remaining 27% of usable storage available in the system. This is a huge improvement from previous proceedings because of the magnitude of advantages that are often carried with this delicate, but productive practice. The benefits of such operation can bring forth a much needed convenience to certain regions because of the fact that there are no fuel requirements to run this process, there are also no combustions since energy is created from a free source of energy. In turn, this creates a productive source of energy that does not release the dangerous greenhouse emissions that are practically destroying this planet and our atmosphere. Another major advantage to this process is that hydropower has the ability to create over 1.4 million cumulative jobs and has the capacity to add another 60,000 megawatts of affordable, domestic, and most importantly a renewable source of energy by 2025. These advantages along with many others such as a low operational and maintenance cost while also advancing the reliability and efficiency over time opens a new chapter in our energy supply in order to meet the demand leverage of clean electricity. Now, you may be wondering what is the levelized cost of this energy source and how does that compare to other sources since there seems to be many types of hydroelectricity; and the answer to that is much simpler than it has to be. First it is important to accept that just like everything else, the installed cost which is one of the primary factors is very costly and more often is rather affordable if the conventional hydrological system is commercial in a sense. That is because micro hydrology systems are still immature and require a lot more effort since the technology has not yet fulfilled the maturity levels. For example, according to the National Hydropower Association the installed cost of a conventional hydro system with a 50 MW range requires an installment cost of $1,000-$5,000 whereas microhydro of a < 0.1 MW range is evaluated at $4,000-$6,000 with a statement that there is also no expectations for a decline in the near term. On the other hand, for an average of 10 MW range of river diversion, one can expect a range of approximately $1,500-$6,000 installed cost per kiloWatt which also has the ability to widely vary from one spot to another. Another study conducted by the International Renewable Energy Agency concludes on average that the levelized cost of electricity in 2010 for small hydro averages between 0.02-0.27 USD/kWh whereas a larger hydropower source ranges from 0.02-0.19 USD/kWh which is also an important factor when deciding the overall benefit and cost of the energy. These production levels are extremely crucial in determining the probability of effectiveness especially when it comes to the long term viability of a specific project in order to ensuring that the overall investment per project does not outweigh the cost of continuously generating electricity.          
