	Last but not least, considering that this energy source currently only makes up for 5% of the total primary energy sector; it doesn’t take much to realize that the low feasibility behind such a project can only make it harder for the long term. That is, if biomass had to be the sole contributor to the U.S. energy market then there will be no doubt that the overall price will also have to increase with the growing need to meet our demand for things such as electricity and transportation. This will also change many things such as the dependency on oil which could also result in equilibrium however the thing about biomass production as mentioned previously is that there is a high demand for the initial raw material that is often not used for food. Currently, natural gas makes up the largest source around 32%  of U.S. electricity generation in 2017 and that is for a reason since natural gas can be used to power steam and gas turbines much more efficiently. Today, there is a growing trend among scientists and engineers to further the development of biomass through new developments which also opens the potential for this source to become more feasible on the macroeconomic scale. However even the low levelized cost of generation for these biofuels isn’t enough to attract dominant potential because of the limited applications to the average consumer. This shows that the demand for such sources is simply not high enough to meet the desired cost to consumer while also lacking to effectively satisfying the interest of the buyer which in turn cripple the existing market and its vacancy as a major resource. According to the Federal Energy Management Program, the most direct method for producing heat from biomass is combustion through a small-scale biomass electric plant whom currently require an installment cost of $3,000 to $4,000 dollars per kW as well as a levelized range between  $0.15 to $0.8 per kilowatt hour. This is a relatively low cost average in comparison to other sources especially non-renewable ones who practically dwarf it’s cost in the electrical sector.
	In conclusion what I learned about biomass energy sources in comparison other resources is that as nice as things may seem to be at first, there really isn’t a way to go around the fact that our society is not only dependent on high energy oils but also our lifestyle seems to be too demanding for what things such as biofuels actually give us. Meaning that as much as biomass seems to be an ideal source of energy, it simply is not enough to replace conventional sources. To the point where even the low price tag isn’t able to elevate its common uses to the average consumer and that itself is enough proof that perhaps in life, we are not looking for the cheapest source of energy but rather one that is most efficient to meet our growing demand without affecting the economical stage. This is turn shows me as a student that the most ideal source of energy, is the one with the highest capacity to do work whereas all these conventional biomass fuels are rather here for the short term discoveries and uses instead of totally replacing our dependency on oils and fuels. 
