The rise of the Persian empire came from the experiences and evolutionary path of previous civilizations such as the Assyrians and Babylonians. Considering that much of the population came from earlier societies in the region, the Persian empire was able to expand at an unprecedented rate much faster than any previous empire by allowing a shattered society to be ruled under the Parthian Empire. In a Journal published by the Evangelical Theological Society, the author describes on the book "The Persian Empire" by Lindsay Alien and expands on the political and religious tensions that existed and accelerated the rise and fall of Assyria and Babylon as these events paved the way for the ascension of the Persians as the world power. The author then continues to mention the military conquests and political tensions of the rulers over conflicts in the region which also played an important role is advancing the Persian empire. To truly understand how the Persian empire was able to grow so large in the region, you will have to dig deeper under the rule of Cyrus who is recognized for establishing Persian power all across the region. After showing formal and symbolic acts against the Medes, Cyrus displayed high dominion over the Persians; who have become masters of the Medes while at the same time Cyrus proclaimed himself as Astyages' successor. This would later include the Near East region and involve the Persian empire in many conflicts that would be viewed as a mean to expand their geographical territory to facilitate trading and transportation routes as a measure to ensure strong communication among the region whilst also expanding their territory as much as possible.
When it comes to the ancient city of Sparta located in Greece, history makes it clear that while Athens was the heart of the Greek intellectual culture; it wasn't the same case with the island of Sparta which lived and evolved to institute a great military power that would later play a major role in history. According to an article on history.com, the Spartan culture taught that loyalty to the state and its military power came before everything else. The article continues to mentioned that during those times, healthy males were only allowed to have one occupation and that is to be a soldier under its warrior culture until the age of 60. In another article, the author describes the Spartan people as a small and elite military community within Greece and highly valued their culture above all others with high moral standards. This makes it evident that the city of Sparta was very territorial and advanced; hence the many wars to come as pure examples of the way they dealt with conflicts. Without Spartan interference in the war against Persia at the beginning of the fifth century B.C. especially the well known Battle of Thermopylae in 480; Greece could have been critically conquered by the Persians if it wasn't for their Spartan allies interfering. However, that relationship did not last long before Athens found itself at war with its neighboring ally over its energy and resources. In conclusion, the reason behind the Spartan institution of power was rather an obligation to common society at the region. Due the Spartan's lack of enthusiasm about education and the sciences, the rulers morphed their society to become the warriors they once were and for that reason their community excelled in military and related crafts. These such advancements would later shape the public's view on Spartans therefore defying it as a influential power in the region that would later reshape history through its military powers.
