	The production of biomass fuels is a relatively easy process that occurs naturally under specific conditions, however in order for such chemical energy to be used it will have to undergo a specific type of treatment that converts this low energy source into a much higher combination with the heightened ability to do work. For example, specific biomass energy sources often have a preferred conversion factor associated with it based on the levels of lignin, cellulose, and hemicellulose levels found within each specific biomass origin. First according to the United States Energy Information Administration, the definition of biomass is the organic material that comes from plants and animals that is a renewable source of energy whom contains stored energy from the sun. When this specific biomass is processed through a combustion process, the chemical energy in the biomass will get released into a generation process that can directly burn then convert this source to a liquid biological fuel with high potential that allows it to be burned as other associated fuel sources. As mentioned previously there are many types of different biomass fuels, one of the most common type used today is the energy that can be extracted from crops including ones with potential alcoholic fuels that can be used to release heat and even generate electricity through the liquid biofuels it consist of. Other types of biomass fuels can also be found in wood, garbage, and landfill gases that often carry high potential energy that can be directly burned to generate electricity in power plants or even the ability to be converted to a biogas to be used in landfills. Lastly, animal manure and human sewage are also considered to be a main source of biofuels especially if mixed with higher energy oils that often can be converted to biogas first before being burned and used as a fuel. Since many of these fuels can be burned directly to produce heat, the process that would be considered as an easy task often has to go through a growth stage that requires a lengthy period of time before the deconstruction and fractionation associated with these intermediates takes place through a process that differentiates among the factors needed to release each specific intermediates. In an interesting article published by the U.S. Department of Energy regarding the conversion of biomass products, the mentions of a High-Temperature Deconustion is claimed to undergo a deconstruction that encompasses pyrolysis, hydrothermal liquefaction, and gasification; where each of these processes can be associated with a specific operation in order to control the decomposition of such sources without the introduction of specified individual actions that often play a final role in utilizing the final product of energy before its combined with other materials, and heat to create a useable concluding product. It isn’t until the energy undergoes the final conversion process to release heat before it can be used to create work, this often grants this renewable source the ability to be condensed with high energy capacity whilst also allowing it to be transport from one location to another without having to be converted on the spot. This gives the biomass resources sector a heightened control in comparison to other sources that have to be used on the spot such as geothermal and hydrological power that has to be converted on the spot before losing primary functions. This energy extract whether it is in its simple sugar form or synthetic gas can later be deconstructed and upgraded into becoming a high energy fuel product that also has the ability to be processed at petroleum refineries before being distributed along a grid network to be used as electricity. 
