When it comes to the various types of investors, there is a magnitude of different types of investments that can be done. There is point where it would be contrasting to compare investors because of many variants in the objective within the investment itself which depend on each individuals nature that is unique to their belief, however in very simplified terms it all comes down to the level of risk that is being taken and the type of investment. After I completed the Risk Tolerance Quiz again, it seems that I got a relatively lesser tolerance for risk than the first time I took which provides a good insight of the everlasting changes that occur within a specific given of time. According to my new score, a 25 means that I have an average/moderate tolerance for risk which places me almost exactly as a median between the two scales. This places me somewhere between the the two extents where I am neither a conservative trader nor a gambler, so what could this instrument suggesting about my future trade? and which type of benefits should I consider when making a trade? These questions regarding my personal investing behavior will be discussed in this short essay. 
	First things first this instrument places me almost exactly in the middle of the scale chart, meaning that the level of risk I currently take on average is neither conservative nor aggressive and that implies that I should consider a diversified portfolio of both stocks and bonds for the long term goal of an expected average of 5% growth per year. In the real world, most investors may chose to go with a safe strategy with a potentially attractive Return on Interest based on the associated risk that is being taken. For that, I would invest in a variety of above the average blue chip stocks which are known to bring yield and even give out a dividend while mostly being safe bets as I also diversifying bonds throughout different sectors which limits the possibility of only high quality stocks with good futuristic value as my main strategy in order to maximize the upside potential and minimize risk. I would suppose my investing profile will tend to change from year to year based on reason and expectation, for example if a specific stock has a stronger than expected move based on a trend then I wouldn’t mind invest passively in that, but it would all come down to the profit and risk factors rather than anything technical analysis and other types of studies. This profile can be used to give me and my advisors details about the type of investment to go about in order to reduce risk, so there are many applications for this where most can provide insights on the type of investment each specific person looks for.
