	The relationship between feelings of touch and other feelings ("non-touch" feelings) is difficult to exactly pinpoint. Feelings of touch can be divided into two general categories, one being the feelings felt by an object touching your skin, and the other being feelings of internal body states, such as having a stomach ache or feeling a cramp in your foot. It can be objected that this latter type is not really a "touch" feeling, because you're not touching anything to cause them. I disagree, because they are the results of physical processes, and because they feel more similar to touching an external object then they do to emotions. Non-touch feelings can be divided into feelings of emotion, such as when you feel angry, sad, happy, or scared, and secondly feelings of disposition, as in "I feel I should be leaving now" or "I feel like I'm getting deeper and deeper into debt". In these last cases, you could replace feel with "believe" or "think". 
	Feelings of touch and feelings not involving touch are occasionally difficult to distinguish, because they share several features. There is no objective feature which is always present in one type and never found in the other. Feelings of touch, for example, always result from a physical stimuli, which is a property that is sometimes present in feelings not involving touch - for example the presentation of a snake will cause feelings of fear in someone who has a phobia of them. Emotional feelings not involving touch have the property that they are almost always either pleasant or unpleasant. This is a property sometimes clearly present in touch feelings, such as pain when you touch a hot stove, but usually not present in typical examples of touching like touching a door knob or a desk. 
From this, it seems that it would be most difficult to distinguish between an experience that has both of the confusable properties - that is pleasant or unpleasant, and that is brought about by the presence of an external object (or internal, physically identifiable body state). Every example I can think of that has these properties, and could possibly be a difficult-to-classify case, is on the border of being an emotional response and a sensory feeling of internal physical states. For example, a man severely scared by a snake suddenly appearing from behind a bush may feel a pain in his chest, and heat throughout his body, which could be seen as the non-touch feeling of fear, or a touch feeling of certain properties of the body's state. 
There are two ways to think of the confusion in the above paragraph's example. One is that the man is feeling both the non-touch feeling of fear at the exact time as the touch feeling of his increased body temperature and his increased heart rate, because one has caused the other (or because they have both been caused by the same thing). Another possibility is that the dichotomy between touch feeling and non-touch feeling is an imprecise one, because as this example shows, there are things that can be classified as both. I tend to sympathize with the latter interpretation, for many reasons. It seems that the difference between the two is as opposite halves of an arbitrarily divided gradient, and not as naturally divided things. That may be why the same word can often be used for both phenomena. At one end of the gradient you would place the sense of touch by which you feel "normal" objects (those not causing painful or pleasurable sensation), next would be the sense of touch for clearly pleasant or unpleasant stimuli, like cutting yourself or touching a hot stove. Next would be feelings of internal body states, like hunger, tooth aches, chest pains, et cetera. Past that would be "emotional" feelings like anger, happiness, sadness, for which there is an immediate object causing it (scared of a snake, mad at that person), then emotional feelings for which there is no immediate object causing it (worried about the future, happy that it will be Christmas soon). Finally, at the other extreme would be feelings of disposition, such as used in "I feel like it's Friday already". In this framework, the experiences most difficult to distinguish would be those falling between internal body states and emotional feelings, and the easiest to distinguish are those falling at either extreme. 
