Taking the difference between recorded music and live music to the extreme, consider a certain musical method used by Handel in which many instrument players were located at various positions along a river.  The instrumentalists began and stopped their playing at precise times to coincide with the arrival of a boat travelling down the river and in order to achieve a certain musical effect for the benefit of the people on the boat.  It would be possible today to simulate that same effect on a recording, perhaps well enough to be nearly indistinguishable to an untrained ear.  In this case, the recorded music and live music, sounding nearly the same, would be coming from extremely different events according to the new conception.  The new conception would again have to say that these extremely different events sound similar only because of an illusion we experience.  There is a precedent for this in vision too, in the example of film where the camera may follow a person around for a while.  In the same way that the point-of-view shot in a film being projected on a screen is an extremely different physical phenomena then a person walking around in a house (yet seeming somewhat the same to us), this type of musical effect can be completely different live then on recording yet still seem very much the same.
The disadvantages of the new conception of hearing have been covered throughout this paper.  The actual advantages are few.  The main advantage is that it provides a more direct link between us and the objects we hear.  Under the old conception, where sounds are directly heard, too much room is left for the indirect objects to be inferences.  This is a disadvantage of the old conception, because nobody is conscious of making this inference when they judge the source of a sound.  The new conception does clear up this by providing a more direct link to the objects making sound.  The disadvantages, however, greatly outweigh any advantage.  The largest problem with a conception of sounds modeled after the current conception of vision is that much more happens to sound before it gets to our ears then happens to light before it gets to our eyes.  It is also a problem that there is sometimes a short gap between an event and the aural perception of it, but only in astronomy is there a perceptible gap between an event and the visual perception of it.  Distortions in sound can be noticed almost everywhere.  Doppler shifts (changes in pitch from a moving object - the equivalent of red shift) in sound can be heard from any car speeding towards you or away from you.  The basic fact that the speed of sound is so much slower then the speed of light leads to all of these problems. 
