	There are two subdivisions in the category of sounds with unidentified sources.  If you hear a sound that you do not know the object of (by other means such as seeing it), then one possibility is that it sounds (exactly) like something you are familiar with.  This possibility would include situations where if you were to base your judgement on the sound alone, you would be sure that it is a certain thing, although you are sure from other information that it cannot be.  For example, hearing a pig's squeal outside your 30th story window.  In situations where you hear an unidentified event that sounds exactly like some familiar event, you could say, under the new conception, "I hear something that sounds like a pig squealing".  What you really hear is "something", some event you cannot identify, and all you can say about the event is that the sound it makes is exactly like the sound made by some other event you have been familiar with in the past.  In the case where the sound we hear is completely novel, we could speak of it as making a sound vaguely similar to something else, or making a sound that has certain properties.  This would still be consistent with the new conception.  What you hear is "something", and all you can say about it is that when you hear it, you have an experience vaguely similar to hearing some other thing.  The analogy in vision would be the situation where you see an irregularly shaped object in a dark room.  All you could see is a single property, shape, which you might identify as "many sided" or "sort of like a UFO shape".  In cases like this where the source of the sound is not known, much of our statements would be similar to our current conception.  We would still say "I hear something like a broken violin", but upon further elaboration, it would come out that it is the unknown object we hear and not the manner in which it effects the medium through which it travels to us.
	The case of sounds that have no discrete source, or a very widely distributed source, is the most problematic for the new conception.  Events which you can hear which have no discrete source include things like the wind, or an echo.  Under the new conception, we would consider the wind to actually be several different events occurring at several different places.  "The wind" would become something like an audience full of people clapping.  Just as there is no problem considering the sound of an audience clapping to be the summation of each individual clapping, a proponent of the new conception could say that there is no problem in considering the wind to be the summation of leaves brushing up against eachother on several different trees and air molecules brushing by several different buildings.  It becomes even more appropriate if the event is a rainstorm.
