International or global communication goes beyond the borders of The United States of America.  “Global communications, as embodied in these notions, entails the distribution of communication networks and information flows on a worldwide, and equally accessible basis”.  The understanding of other cultures and the awareness of other countries needs goes beyond the knowledge of many members of society.  From a humanitarian standpoint, global communications is a valuable motivator for global good because it plays an important role in supporting countries with foreign aid, acts as a guide to understand different cultures and helps to gain an awareness of other countries needs.  
Foreign aid in the form of money, food, military assistance and other necessary resources are often given to countries that are experiencing poor economic conditions, security issues, and political corruption.  Poorly developed countries often show an underdeveloped economic system.  Through global communication tools, helpful information reaches other countries willing to help.  “These technologies have proven extremely useful not only in promoting and sustaining economic activities of all kinds, as well as in enhancing human potential – a key ingredient for the success of any development program”.  Underdeveloped countries often experience weak security that results in threats to the safety of their people.  Furthermore, information about the instability and/or corrupt political systems of poorly developed countries often alerts other countries that help may be necessary.
Information and communication technologies can be used to aid the progress of underdeveloped countries.  One example is low earth-orbiting satellites.  These satellites are run by software and can be programmed specifically to meet the needs of a variety of countries.  Because the cost to upgrade a developing countries technology is extremely costly, many in today’s private sector can help fund these satellite systems and other forms of advanced technology, which will develop a country to participate in global information services. 
Understanding the beliefs and behaviors of other cultures is an important factor in any successful global humanitarian effort.  Global communication allows this understanding to take place.  Through global networks and Internet websites individuals can learn a valuable understanding about the strengths and weaknesses of certain cultures.  “Global networks, the use of computers for international communication, will further enhance and expand how humans connect, communicate, and created community”.  Furthermore, as individuals analyze those strengths and weaknesses, those who wish to help will understand what help is needed. 
Advancements and opportunities have been made in global communications to provide ways for society to gain an understanding of cultures in other countries and participate in humanitarian efforts.  “The revolution in the news media and satellite communications offers more optimism.  Relief organizations have proliferated, and donations have been higher than ever in the last twenty-five years due to new media coverage of disasters”.      
Global communication will continue to be a valuable motivator for global good.  Through advanced technology such as software driven satellites, international communication will push the boundaries and potential of foreign aid.  This international communication will continue to play an important role in providing foreign aid to countries that are underdeveloped.  Advancement in international communication will help develop better economic conditions, better security and political improvement.   Global communication will continue to help society understand different cultures by providing technology that allows a better understanding of the beliefs and behaviors of other cultures.  This understanding will continue to result in successful global humanitarian efforts.   

