New managers experience a variety of feelings when they are promoted higher than their former peers.  One can explain and evaluate these feelings, as shown in the Linda Hill chapter from Becoming a Manager.  New managers can take certain steps to overcome these difficult feelings.  
Learning to become a manager is not a simple transition.  The change involves many challenges, which include grasping the concept of managing people other them themselves.  An individual, who has just been promoted, is already instilled with an individual value system and a work routine.  This value and routine had worked when they were only responsible for themselves.   However, managers gain a number of tasks, which means a plan must be put in place for a greater number of people to help accomplish organizations goals.  The plan involves the new responsibility of making sure multiple individuals are kept on given tasks.  Managers build a network, which means an additional leadership quality must be added to their self-awareness.
The stress involved in management positions is higher the stress experienced in individual positions.  The stress often comes from the difficulty of being able to measure their success, which can result in becoming unsatisfied with their work.  Managers must learn to deal with stress levels in a different way, and they must find another way to solidify work satisfaction.
In order to become a manager, an individual can learn in a variety of ways.  However, there are three important ways to learn.  It is important for an upcoming manager to understand how to learn something new, and this learning must be constant.  There are a variety of courses and other resources available, which will help managers in their quest to become better leaders.
They must be able change his or her mind and changing themselves.  This is necessary because all successful businesses are managed by individuals are able to adjust to changes in different industries, such as technology changes.  Managers must be able to be open-minded to other value systems, and they must be able to look at things completely different.   This change will help others to be eager to learn and find it easy to adapt to the same industry shifts.
Managers often put too much time and thought into achieving the multiple tasks at hand, that they forget other responsibilities and expectations.  Managers are also expected to look into the future, in order to assist companies in remaining strong future competitors.  Their future outlook cannot involve resistance to change, and it must involve being prepared for additional stress.  They need to understand that the future involves changes and complexity.  One could say that a leader deals with complexity and a manager deals with changes.  There is a concern that many managers do not have leadership and management capabilities, which can result in over-managed companies.
Many companies have gone global, which is expected to increase.  Therefore, managers who are able to relate a tackle a complex global system may be able to increase their leadership skills.  However, there is a possibility that many of today’s companies lack leadership and management, because global often means complex.  
Management and leadership are equally important in today’s world.  Managers need to be able to deal with a complex system, and be able to accept changes.  Today, there are a smaller amount of individuals who choose management positions, because the positions do not look as appealing as they had in the past.  There are also a significant number of other people who find a management position, but they become overworked and end up quitting or losing the desire complete responsibilities.
