Anonymity was once the preferred personal state to be in while surfing the internet.  Most people did not want anyone to know what they were doing on the internet.  While this still holds true for those who wish to not have their identity attached to places such as product review boards or other opinion forums or other reasons, many internet users take advantage of using many areas of the internet to establish a personal brand.  “As previously mentioned, the Internet users’ intentions to stay anonymous in the Internet are manifold and range from legal to a wide range of illegal reasons”.  A personal brand is valuable because it can provide opportunities to highlight my personal strengths.
Behind every corporate brand name or small business name there is a person or people who are the backbone of every success story.  As a writer and an artist, the value of a personal brand for me is extremely valuable to help build my story of success because when people know my personal brand, they will understand and value my writing or art creations.  To know me is to know my creations.  I can establish a reputation while building my personal brand that will allow a more successful flow of requests for writing jobs or custom art requests.  “Your brand must strike a careful balance between keeping up with the times and maintaining a consistency that your audience can count on”.      
The opportunity that personal branding brings establishes trust between me and people who have interest in my writing and my art.  This established trust will result in people remembering my personal brand ahead of my competitor’s personal brand.  A valuable personal brand builds a trust that will allow my career to be successful because people trust someone they know before someone who is unknown.  “The mind is the battleground competing brands fight over, and the Personal Brand that can evoke the strongest, most lasting perceptions in the mind wins”.  If a customer is comfortable and knows my product or service well, they will trust and more than likely be willing to pay more for my service or product.
Many areas of the internet can be used as tools and pathways towards a personal brand.  The power of Web 2.0 will allow me to build my personal brand through such social media platforms like Facebook, Twitter and Pinterest by showcasing who I am to my followers and to those who like my personal brand Facebook page or Pinterest pins.  As I expose my strengths through these social media sites, my personal brand will become better known.  “A key part of branding is visibility – clearly displaying your value to the world.  The more people who either know you or have heard about you, the better”. 
My personal strengths will be highlighted in opportunities from establishing a valuable personal brand.  By communicating my personal brand through advanced technology, the opportunity for trust between myself and my potential customers who are interested in hiring me to write blogs or purchase my art creations.  Through social media and other areas of the Internet, even globally, my personal brand can be recognized just as larger corporations are known throughout the world.  By concentrating on my professional goals, including strategies, resources and professional networks, my valuable personal brand can be established.
