The marketing manager and the financial executive are visionaries.  This leadership style solidifies support, which the group and other future employees need.  This allows them to stay positive about experimenting and taking risks  The financial executive will be able to use his coaching leadership style to keep the group on task to reach goals.  With this style, he will also be able to show them how to improve their performance.
This was one example of three people who have different skills and leadership styles.  Their new venture promises future success and profit, because their styles and skills complement each other.  There are many types of teams, but the main goal is to build a diverse team.
Anonymity was once the preferred personal state to be in while surfing the internet.  Most people did not want anyone to know what they were doing on the internet.  While this still holds true for those who wish to not have their identity attached to places such as product review boards or other opinion forums or other reasons, many internet users take advantage of using many areas of the internet to establish a personal brand.  “As previously mentioned, the Internet users’ intentions to stay anonymous in the Internet are manifold and range from legal to a wide range of illegal reasons”.  A personal brand is valuable because it can provide opportunities to highlight my personal strengths.
Behind every corporate brand name or small business name there is a person or people who are the backbone of every success story.  As a writer and an artist, the value of a personal brand for me is extremely valuable to help build my story of success because when people know my personal brand, they will understand and value my writing or art creations.  To know me is to know my creations.  I can establish a reputation while building my personal brand that will allow a more successful flow of requests for writing jobs or custom art requests.  “Your brand must strike a careful balance between keeping up with the times and maintaining a consistency that your audience can count on”.      
The opportunity that personal branding brings establishes trust between me and people who have interest in my writing and my art.  This established trust will result in people remembering my personal brand ahead of my competitor’s personal brand.  A valuable personal brand builds a trust that will allow my career to be successful because people trust someone they know before someone who is unknown.  “The mind is the battleground competing brands fight over, and the Personal Brand that can evoke the strongest, most lasting perceptions in the mind wins”.  If a customer is comfortable and knows my product or service well, they will trust and more than likely be willing to pay more for my service or product.
