Coldwell Banker, a chain of real estate firms, contributed to the growth of innovative mobile marketing campaigns by introducing a new ad format called branded video. The success of the new ad format can be attributed to the necessity of clicking on a banner ad before the iPad app video would appear. The company saw an unusually high rate of interaction of 7%. A local bridal boutique could employ Coldwell Bankers’ mobile marketing campaign strategies by running banner ads showing actual weddings from past customers. The banner ad could click into a mobile app built by the boutique.
These five companies proved that mobile marketing campaigns can be innovative and involve more than just basic SMS messaging for marketing purposes. As more consumers increase their mobile app usage, there are more opportunities for companies, such as a local bridal boutique, to build innovative marketing campaigns. For these campaigns to be successful, businesses must respect the mindset of the mobile app user and offer the consumer benefits that will encourage them to use specific mobile apps. 

Successful mobile marketing campaigns can be identified to discover how well each campaign took and how long each one lasted. They can also be analyzed and summarized to discover what each one did to be successful for its entire life cycle. Once a new media campaign starts, the campaign is never set in place. They are adjusted according to the reactions of consumers in the marketplace. Six mobile marketing campaigns have been analyzed and summarized and a favorite campaign has been selected.  
Priority Moments was designed in order to provide discounts and rewards to those with O2 via mobile apps. Cherry London designed a reward system based on tiers which resulted in millions of new registrants and more than one billion views. Each reward was designed to do something different including increasing customer satisfaction, reactivating a user and rewarding loyalty. By using value as the basis of a target approach and live locations based on insight, the campaign was able to remain successful for its entire life cycle.
L’ Oréal INOA Colour Capture App was created to encourage customers to try INOA, which is one of L’Oréal’s most professional and creative hair colour. The campaign successfully increased mobile voucher usage, increased registered users, increased the number of voucher claimed, and drove customers into salons in Ireland and the UK. The campaign was able to remain successful by giving customers complimentary hair service and free INOA sample packs if they downloaded the app.
McCann New York developed IKEA Catalog App for the purpose of giving customers a catalog in digital format instead of an older print format. The campaign resulted in the company’s app becoming the number one marketing app downloaded in 2012 at 6.2 million installs. The campaign remained successful during its entire life cycle because users were able to unlock extra content through the app.
Halifax Home Finder App was created for consumers searching for properties.  The app’s success resulted in reaching out to 20 million different users through demonstration videos and downloads. Halifax’s campaign remained successful because it gave users additional tools including a mortgage calculator.
