After MediaCom iLab introduced The Co-operative: Driving Education and Awareness through Mobile Campaign in order to bring attention to their youbng driver’s insurance, the campaign app showed a high download rate and a change in the original cost per download. The campaign remained successful because it kept the interest of people who wanted to try out the product before they decided to purchase the app.
In order to achieve success and to keep their potential customer’s attention through a campaign’s entire lifecycle, LG released an entertaining gamed called LG Ticket Hunter. LG Ticket Hunter was presented by Mindshare UK to help LG reach an audience of younger females for its L-series handset campaign. The release of the campaign generated an increase of hashtag usage, website traffic and sales.
After understanding the needs of their audiences, each company used several different tools to remain engaged with their audiences during the entire life cycle of each campaign. Although each company remained successful, there is one favorite campaign that stood out above the rest because it was clearly beneficial to both the company and the consumer. The Co-operative: Driving Education and Awareness campaign allowed users to try out the product before buying. Many consumers want a hassle-free way of testing products before they make a purchase. The campaign was beneficial to both the company and potential customers because potential customers were able to make sure the product was suitable for them and the company was able to see which app users were more insurable.  

Many types of businesses use Twitter as part of their new media marketing efforts. There are many Twitter tips a business can use in order to achieve positive marketing results. The value of Twitter for businesses is increasing as more businesses discover which tips are most relevant. Businesses are realizing it is equally important to choose a Twitter name that is memorable and recognizable to other Twitter users.
The first Twitter tip relevant to new media marketing is the importance of deciding the purpose behind why Twitter will be used. There are several reasons why businesses use Twitter including the need to generate leads and the desire to build their company brand. Determining the purpose will assist businesses in deciding what information they want to share and who they want to follow.
The second relevant Twitter tip is the importance of determining a strategy. Certain goals, such as promoting, influencing, or selling should focus on communication. Communicating goals across Twitter will attract attention. In order gain the attention of other users, a business should communicate to other Twitter users by taking actions such as sending direct messages and Tweeting.
The third relevant Twitter tip is learning how to participate on Twitter to its fullest. In addition to learning the basics of Twitter, such as Twitter terminology, it is important to explore Twitter to see what people are tweeting and who is on Twitter. This will allow a business to understand how Twitter works.
Grabbing a name, brand, or persona is just as important as the three most relevant tips. A chosen Twitter name will be included in tweet tags and it will become the main factor in how a business is recognized.. Choosing a great Twitter name will allow a business to be found easily and it will allow the business to promote their brand. The name should be relevant to the actual name of the business, it should be kept short and it should be easy to remember. 
The most relevant Twitter tips will continue to give businesses a chance to achieve positive results from their new media marketing efforts. They can gain the attention of other users in order to increase the amount of Twitter followers and generate Tweets that will force a positive impact on their business. By deciding the purpose for using Twitter, determining a strategy, learning how to use Twitter, and choosing an appropriate Twitter name, a business can remain competitive in their industry. 
