Teams can be built to include people with different leadership styles and a variety of skill sets.  If these skill sets complement each other, an effective team can be created.  When a variety of leadership styles exist; a successful team can be formed.  A diverse team can work well together, and an example of such a team can be provided.
As an example, three people are going to be involved in the process of opening a new restaurant.  There are many people involved in such an endeavor, and specific skill sets are necessary to ensure or increase the chance of success.  These skill sets will complement each other, which decreases the possibility of a large amount of bumps in the road.  The three people are a marketing director, a financial executive, and a manager.  The marketing director has 20 years of experience in advertising and marketing for large restaurant chains.  The financial executive has a strong skill set, because he was once able to pull five restaurants out of the red and back into a high profit margin.  The manager has a history of managing as many as 50 employees in his past experience.  He also has time management skills, negotiating skills, and understanding food safety and trends.  One of his strongest skills is being able to delegate responsibilities.  In addition to the skill sets needed for each job title, this three person team is unique, because they have each worked in several restaurant industry positions, including working as a waiter, a hostess, and a bartender.  This unique quality allows them to understand what it takes to be a productive and efficient cook, waitress, waiter, hostess, and bartender.
The marketing manager decides to start a Facebook business page, because he wants to build excitement about a new restaurant coming to town.  He has already studied how important a social media marketing campaign is to any successful business, because he holds a marketing degree with a concentration in social media.  The financial executive uses his skill set to figure a budget for the campaign, because he likes and will approve the social media plan.  However, he wants to convince the marketing manager to run print ads in the local newspaper.  The manager agrees and conveniently has a close connection with the local newspaper company.  He is able to cut a deal with the newspaper.
The new manager of the example restaurant is in charge of hiring a staff.  Unfortunately, this is one skill set that is his weakness, because he has been used to a separate hiring manager.  The hiring manager was in charge of recruiting and hiring new employees.  However, the marketing manager drums up a plan, which allows the manager to get assistance from himself and the financial executive.  They will have open interviews at the new location, where they will all be present.
Any new business has roadblocks and mistakes along the way.  However, just as the example shows, if people involved have the right skill sets, they can even assist in a job responsibility they normally would not do.  A financial executive is normally out of the hiring process, but because he was in charge of hiring at one of his previous jobs, he was able to easily step in and assist.
