Fresh ideas and new creative concepts are thriving in mobile marketing campaigns throughout many industries. From clothing retail stores to car manufacturers, companies are grasping the reality of the high number of consumers who have made mobile apps a daily and often hourly necessity in their lives. Businesses that wish to earn a place on a consumer’s list of favorite mobile apps can learn from other companies that have run innovative mobile marketing campaigns. The strategies of five companies can be assessed to discover what they did well and what made each mobile marketing campaign innovative. Many of the strategies can be employed into a new marketing campaign for other businesses such as a local bridal boutique. 
French auto manufacturer, Renault, found a way for attendees of an Amsterdam Motor Show to “like” different models of cars on Facebook. Renault’s innovative method worked well because the company gave attendees a fun way to interact with Facebook without using a phone or a PC. By using RFID-enabled cards and check-in locations, Renault was successfully able to generate product specific activity on the walls of Facebook users. A local bridal boutique could employ Renault’s mobile marketing campaign strategies by attending a Bridal Expo and setting up a similar marketing system. Instead of cars, the local bridal boutique would be highlighting wedding dresses, tuxes and other wedding party apparel. 
Diesel is a leader in casual and denim fashion that took advantage of QR Codes. By placing highly visual QR Codes in retail stores, Diesel was successfully able to entice customers to “like” a product and the customer would in turn receive a discount. This innovative strategy led to Diesel’s products being branded across the Facebook walls of many consumers. A local bridal boutique could employ Diesel’s mobile marketing campaign strategies by placing QR Codes in their retail store which could be linked to Facebook. The boutique could take a step further by linking the QR Codes to other social media sites such as Twitter or Pinterest.
Macy's, a chain of department stores, also used QR Codes for their innovative mobile marketing campaign. Macy’s success was recognizing and understanding many of their target customers were not tech savvy. They made it possible for all customers to participate in the promotion by explaining the promotional program to people on youtube.com. Macy’s also made it possible to participate even without a smartphone by enabling a text option. A local bridal boutique could employ Macy’s mobile marketing campaign strategies by also launching a QR Code program for wedding apparel as well as a YouTube video showing their products with a text option in place for customers who did not have smartphones.
When Starbucks, a leading global coffee company, started accepting mobile payments, they introduced a new benefit to customers who use mobile apps. The company launched a program that allowed customers to pay with PayPal or a credit card. The customer could then scan a barcode on their phone at any Starbucks location. Starbucks innovation proved that mobile apps were more than just a novelty. As a convenience to its customers, a local bridal boutique could employ Starbucks’ mobile marketing campaign strategies by allowing customers to pay for wedding dresses, tuxes, and bridal party apparel through a mobile phone. The boutique could also offer incentives for those mobile users who paid on time. 
