The contact page will feature a form to email the firm, which also serves as a method of capturing lead data while offering a simple form of contact for visitors.

The website industry standard for data and analytics is Google Analytics. Google Analytics (GA) is a free to use service that provides robust information on every visitor to a website. GA gathers and provides demographic and location information for each user, compiles information on how visitors engage with the website (i.e. pages viewed, buttons clicked, action items or goals completed), and reports on how visitors arrived at the website (i.e. paid search ads, organic search results, social media referrals, other website referrals).

Once per month, a report will be compiled detailing user demographics, website engagement, and website referral sources to recommend ideas on improving marketing and outreach methods. This report will be generated by the Marketing Administrator and distributed to the Business Manager and President of S&A.

Landing pages are an integral part of creating a sales and lead generation focused website. These pages are not part of the main navigation of the website, and are intended to be a single page design that provide information and resolve such as a contact submission form or a request for proposal form. Landing pages are a useful tool in social media and e-mail campaign marketing. Call to action features within social media and e-mail campaigns would tell the user to “click here for more info” or “learn more about MTS”, for example and point them to a landing page for that specific call to action, with the intention of leading them to a sale.

S&A is already present on Facebook, LinkedIn, YouTube, and Instagram. As a new website is developed, integration of these four platforms will be focused on and expanded. Blog/news posts from the website will automatically post to Facebook and LinkedIn. Engineer profiles will link to their LinkedIn profiles to highlight expertise and recommendations. A current feed of Instagram photo posts will be present to show dynamic and engaging content. Social media sharing buttons for these platforms will be present on all blog/news posts.  Blog/news posts featuring video content will be hosted via the S&A YouTube channel to encourage subscribers to the channel.

Along with the blog/news posting calendar and schedule, a schedule of social media posts will be created to supplement content and keep users engaged with the S&A brand.

It is proposed to begin work on the website and its content as soon as possible with existing photo and video content and to hire professional photographers and videographers as budgeting allows.

All initial setup of website hosting, theme, and content transfer will take less than 2 full working days depending on reporting and proposal workload. An initial review of the populated website is proposed for 7 calendar days after the Marketing Administrator is given approval to purchase hosting and the WordPress theme. After initial review, any changes will be made and an anticipated launch/go-live date will be scheduled. Once changes are made, the website will undergo a final review and the countdown to the launch date will begin.
