The purpose of the website and digital marketing proposal is to clarify items that will be integrated into the Smith & Associates, Inc. (S&A) website redesign, create a timeline for start and completion as well as an actionable calendar for updates, and identify long-term projects to increase web branding. The goal and intent of this proposal is to increase engagement with the S&A brand online, create a standard place for information about the business and services, offer news and updates to clients, prospects, and the general public, and to generate business through lead capture methods.

Create written, graphic, and video content to display across multiple platforms (website, YouTube, Facebook, LinkedIn, Instagram, etc.) to attract potential customers, generate and cultivate leads, and influence past and existing clients to return to the firm.

Set up a new, more affordable and user friendly hosting platform to host all website files and media. Migrate existing website copy to new website template and allow ease of access for web updates to be made internally to S&A website.

Analyze and re-write web copy to capture keyword based web searches and ensure S&A is in the Top 5 of Google, Yahoo, and Bing search results for the market area. Ensure website loads quickly and is responsive to multiple types of browsers, computers, tablets, and smartphones.

Create and publish blog/news articles to blog platform integrated within new S&A website.

Create a subscription and lead capture form on the website in multiple areas: request for proposal/quotation, newsletter subscription, and contact us forms.

Set up Google Analytics to capture all website traffic data to analyze how visitors are engaging with the website.  Establish location and demographics data to utilize for future marketing campaigns. Deliver monthly analytics report to Jean Graunke and Eric Wiberg.

Create landing pages specific to services offered (i.e. Materials Testing, Geotechnical Observations, Environmental Consulting) to funnel leads into a request for proposal form. These will be fed by external marketing sources (ex. If someone searches for Materials Testing in Maine, it would lead to an MTS landing page to request a quote).

Link all social media clients together (LinkedIn, Facebook, Instagram, YouTube) to have content cross-post to all platforms. Engage with client businesses, vendors, and clients/customers via social media platforms and include request for proposal forms via link or embedded form within each social media page.

This will allow for a guided user interface (GUI) for simple content updates and website changes for employees of S&A. This eliminates the need for bulky FTP (file transfer protocol) downloads and uploads for website updates.

Within WordPress.org, the overall look and feel of the website is built upon a “theme.” Themes are available under free and premium license types. While custom theme design is possible, it is time and cost prohibitive to most businesses. The standard practice for small businesses is to purchase an existing theme license based on business type and overall design needs, and modify the colors and content within the theme to match the business needs.  Custom modifications can and will be made to any theme purchased to ensure content and design fit with the overall branding of S&A.
