Current website content and copy will be transferred onto the new website and freshened up to highlight any keywords and cross-link pages and references to boost website searchability (this is Search Engine Optimization/SEO).

It is proposed that S&A hire a photographer to conduct a branding photo shoot with engineers and the business to capture field work, create headshots, and deliver a professional photography portfolio to utilize across the website, social media, e-mail campaigns, and print marketing. Quotes for photography services have not yet been acquired, however, it is anticipated that such a robust undertaking would cost no more than $2,500.

It is proposed that S&A hire a drone videographer to capture dynamic video footage of past and completed jobs that the firm has completed work on. Quotes for videography services have not yet been acquired, however, it is anticipated based on local drone operator websites that this service would cost no more than $500.

This line item is included to anticipate the number of work hours that would be spent on website design and rebuild.  While it is anticipated that web design and rebuild would take roughly 40 hours, the doubling of anticipated cost is added to account for anticipated time spent gather bids for photo and video services, time spent with photographers and videographers to plan photo and video shoots, establishing analytics programs and reporting, and automatic drip-marketing campaigns for new leads.

Several measures will be taken to ensure S&A is among the top rankings on major search engines (i.e. Google, Yahoo, Bing). Website and Search Engine Optimization (SEO) is an on-going task, however, the list below includes some basic items that demonstrate the process for improving rankings and website clicks:

WordPress.org is primarily a blogging platform, while functioning practically as a content management system. With this platform as the foundation, it is simple to integrate a blog/news section within the S&A website. The primary purpose of the blog will be to publish press releases, share industry news and information, highlight cultural values of S&A, share tips and tricks, and more. Once the new website is live, a calendar of blog posts and running list of ideas will be created to develop the posts and schedule the publishing of target posts.

While the S&A website is informative and will help visitors understand the culture and values of the firm, its primary purpose will be to generate leads for services offered. A subtle, yet aggressive approach will be taken to capture and convert leads visiting the website into proposals and projects.

The services pages (Materials Testing, Geotechnical, Environmental Consulting) are the ideal pages to capture and convert leads into business. It is anticipated that most visitors to these pages will be identifying firms to collaborate or hire to complete work within projects and it is imperative that we ensure a simple and effective call to action is placed on these pages.

The home page will offer a generalized lead capture system through two methods: a newsletter signup form and a contact the firm form.
