If you plan to visit Bensonurt, Brooklyn, do not have any difficult time to find it! Public transport is very accessible and is one of the most popular transport forms in New York City. Bensonurt is a pretty urban neighborhood, so feel as in New York City. During your visit, be ready to see the various Asian branches in the area. In the last two decades, Bensonurt has received an influx of Asian inhabitants. Therefore, you will see an ASIAT possession of at least every block as you go. The most popular are supermarkets and detergents. Coincidentally, these companies are very popular with the residents, as the quality of food in the supermarkets are excellent, the prices are much cheaper, and finally it is very important, it is very practical. Nearby, in which I am, there are four Asian supermarkets within two minutes from a few minutes away from each other. This adds only the convenience of grocery access. I do not say that Bensonhurst is populated purely by Asian residents. It is quite diverse, with immigrants and their first-generation and American second-generation children here. Most large and popular businesses in the area are asian owned. In addition to these Asian own companies, there is also a recently renovated park nearby, which has around ten basketball courts, a large field for football or baseball, four handball courts, swings, a playground for children and even a water fountain for children has water in summer . Since we are in New York City, the parks are of course very different. You will see all sorts of variety that can play well and can do well. There are not many major corporate buildings in this neighborhood. The only buildings you would find are those for the cooperative residential or condominiums. The majority of living spaces here are two family homes. Most people are nice, but very loud. Every day they would hear how cars break their music while driving at their house or constantly beans the gas on their cars they will wake up in the morning. If you are planning to visit during the night, you should be on your guard. This neighborhood is pretty sure, but people are unpredictable. You can run in people who want to start problems without reason, mobber and thieves. I myself was bullied in this neighborhood in the past about physical attacks, but that was many years ago. Another last incident involves the package steals. Although a common thing, there is package thieves in this neighborhood. Last but not least, although New York City has a fine for people who do not tidy their dogs, people do not follow the rules here. Every morning you will see at least one dog drop on the road to the train station or on the way to the supermarket. My biggest peer Peeve is everywhere, where I go in this neighborhood. Be careful and keep your shoes clean!