"Where is everything?" She asked when we pass the cornfields that filled the horizon. "That's it!" I said and knew she was shocked that the sparkness of the open countryside were shocked. She came from a city where the grocery store was a 5-minute walk from her house - she had never seen this open space in her life. Recorded by the ubimony of the cornfields, I shared with her what it wanted to grow up in rural Ohio, and at that moment she finally knew who I was and where I came. If you drive a two-lane country road, you can reach a quarry that is filled with water. Just over it is the small development in which I live. The houses usually consist of bricks and stucco. All houses have at least half a hectare of land where everyone is proud of. During spring, planted flowers are plentiful annually with the median trees that change with every season. The entrances are all filled with the highest end Mercedes Benz luxury cars, glittering in the midday sun after a good, old-fashioned car wash. The Korean neighbors along the road in the direction of my gray stucco house is always out there with a friendly face. He tends to spend the whole day with mowing his lawn, and can hear how he buzz over his mower. Everyone in the neighborhood laughs out of him, but he is always real and an amazing person with a unique story. He has become older and lost something of his joke when he is older. In his past he was a doctor and usually mixes with the grass and his John Hirsch zero mower. Finally you reach my home. In the Side Yard geese are abundant and are hunted by our terrier. Back back, there is a small stream that feeds into the quarry. Here you can hear Bullfrogs, the Bach and the occasional "Moo" from the nearby farms. Over the handmade wooden bridge, a pristine oasis is filled with natural growing trees, herbs and wildflowers. Here I spent most of my childhood. From the construction of tree powers to "hunting" animals (usually consist of hunting), there was always something to do, and usually a neighborhood child for friendship was available. The winters in my small town can be painfully brutal, but there is nothing more beautiful. The farm turns into an empty wilderness from a Greenmeer. The trees, which were once lively pink, purple and orange flowers, are in barren skeletons of bark. When she blessed with the occasional snowfall, a winter wonderland appears overnight. The backyard is lined with snow fishing by my little sister and snowmen. My sister and I often fought as children, and during the winter snowballs were our weapon of choice. We build massive Igloo-like forts to accommodate our weapons, usually with branches, like an arsenal. In our own little wonderland we were played there, as if we were in a time, in which nothing else was. We were only young children without care in the world.