I live in a typical suburb in a small south city in Tennessee. It's a connecting road between two state highways, so we get a bit more traffic on the street when I want, but unlike that, it is a quiet neighborhood. There are not too many people who turn into and take off, so I have grown at most people who live in the neighborhood. People dealt with Yard work and other daily tasks for the most part. In winter we snakes down a hill on our side street. We live in a house at the front purpose of our street, so we see that all come all day and go all day and familiar with the cars that people move here. Whenever we see a strange vehicle, we tend to note it. Some of the neighbors go to workout or just to go to their dogs. Children play on their bicycles and everything they would expect from this. We are a lot at home since we work from our house. There are four of us, me and my wife, and two daughters forced eleven and fourteen years old. So I would say that everyone else will be used to us, even if they come and go. We come outside and play, sometimes in the rain. We barbecue in a while outside on our backside and it's always a pleasant smell of the grill and all. It seems that there is always someone's grass here, and you can hear a lawnmower almost every day from March to October when the grass finally stops growing. We have many trees in our neighborhood, as it was originally a forest area, so there is plenty of shadows, but also in the cases there are always many leaves. So that means that the leaves annually rake and burns. I like the smell of burning leaves too, so that's always a nice sign that the fall has arrived. Lately we did not talk much winter to talk about it, so just feel like a long autumn. Our garage is located on the back of our house, so we rarely use the front door of our house, unless anyone knocks on the door, which is rare. I like to work in the garage on my truck or other projects from time to time and when I open the garage doors, it feels like I would be more in the neighborhood. In holidays it is pretty quiet here. Thanksgiving sees some of the neighborhood families visiting people from the city, and there are additional cars parked everywhere at this time of the year. It is the same with other holidays like Mother's Day and Christmas. All in all, I like to live here. If there were no passageway, it would be perfect.