I live in a small town in the middle west, which is just outside the suburbs of a big city. My immediate neighborhood, on the east side of the city, could be described as the economically disadvantaged area of ​​the city. Property values ​​are low, rented with most houses or low-income people in possession. However, it is not unattractive or unpleasant. My neighbors are usually friendly people who smile and say hello when I walk on the street. Crime rates, while a little higher than in other parts of the city, are generally still low. There were only a few blocks from my house a few violent crime in the last ten years, including a few shootings and at least one manslaughter. Our next neighbors lost their son in a shooting range outside a range of bar last year. Fortunately, our family did not directly affect crimes than with a random article disappeared from our porch concerned when we forget to bring inside. In general, in the city I affected by the "opioid epidemic" is a deep life that affects many parts of the United States. Many lives were lost due to fentanyl overdoses. Fortunately, there are many resources in my city to combat this epidemic, including multiple search strehabilitation centers and Narcan training for families and friends of looking for searches. Despite these challenges, this city has many positive qualities. My son is the elementary school has excellent employees, from the client to the teachers and caregiver staff. Despite special needs, he has not confronted bullying due to the incredibly positive atmosphere of the school, and he loves it there. We have an active PTO that plans to promote several events all year the inclusion of the family and education progress. Since more than 20% of our city population lives below the poverty line, the elementary school offers a complimentary breakfast and lunch for all students, so no child has ever hungry to go. No child or family is treated as "smaller than" due to insolvency, and the cost of school fees, consumables and excursions are very reasonable. The city and staff advice have made many improvements to make the appearance of our city, including new-shelf streets, landscape and renovation city parks. Unfortunately, most of these improvements have been brought to the center of the city and on the west side, where all the shopping streets are located and most of the traffic goes through. The east side, where I tend to be neglected life, what a point of issue for those who are in my neighborhood. Overall, I enjoy living in this city. The people are usually friendly, the schools are big, there are enough shopping (both small businesses and larger retail stores) to meet my family needs, and our house can not be much worth, but it is comfortable and sufficient. Our family has lived here for over 16 years, and we can not introduce anywhere else to live.