My neighborhood consists of duplex on a cul-de-sack alley. They are intermittently placed and spaced, so they look like individual houses. The only difference is painted with white porches and green metal roofs. Almost everyone, but not all, are friends with each other. At the end of a not previously decidedly we are a few evenings and chit chat, while the little children of the neighborhood play with their toys, sidewalk chimney or fly their dragons. It is very refreshing in this modern, mechanical / computer-filled world. It's more than you would withdraw in time. We are surrounded by fields and trees that are improved by blue sky and white, cheap clouds. The only downfall? This season we experience Tornado warnings and for the first time, last night we actually heard actual tornado siren, so we had to go towards protection. Sure, they would have found me in my bathtub in my bathtub to climb my little dog with my handbag and a few pillows. My big dog did not want to do anything with the bathroom and stayed in the living room, nervous and bark, nervous at odd circumstances. The neighborhood was quiet, with the exception of the sound of big hail, all fell the ground. After the storm, the road was literally from the temperature change. We went in a few minutes from 92 to 75. The hail is melted immediately when he met the hot pavement. When I looked up on the roof sky, the sun came out and it began to rain. A double rainbow that appears. I ran into the house and grabbed my camera. Quickly snapped pictures to share with my Facebook friends and family. They were in awe, like me. The streets remained calm for another hour before some people finally from wherever they were, wherever they were when the thunderstorm was hit. Then it was a business as usual, Moms and children outdoors cooked as a dinner. Such a friendly neighborhood for this gal recently moved with the form NH to NC. I love the southern accent with which people talk. I have a two bedroom and two bath linen, as well as everyone. Although all houses on the outside look the same, not all apartments in the inside are the same. Some are actually pretty tiny. It makes no sense for me. I love to go on the biggest field behind it, where I live and Mosey to the pond that is not made for swimming. I saw deer, and in the morning you can hear the huge bullfrog who sings his song. It is a fantastic place to live only forty minutes outside the city of Charlotte. Every morning is welcomed by the sound of hares, which crow away from the surrounding farms. It's more like you would live in a small community village of your own life. We even have a donkey at a nearby farm you can hear in the evening to let us know that he is there. I was lucky to find this jewel of a neighborhood.