My neighborhood is full of culture. It is surrounded by buildings with historical significance on a hill. I live in a 7 story home directly opposite the old live theater, and a block down the hill, this cool small arcade bar is that different types of people in warm summer nights flow. Often, especially on the weekends in June and July, you will see a number of people seeing. A few blocks further is the next city park. It's pretty big, the part of the city considering it sitting in. Encircling The park concrete is poured into the wall with high stairs. During the cold winter months, homeless people put their tents in ordinary small rows along the sidewalk and along the wide stages. It does not need much snow, but it rains, and the tearing down pouring in the middle of the winter months often tends to keep it hard to make. Adjusting your tents close to each other, in the middle of the city, instead of like in the jungle, keeps you a lot of warmer. You are also in walking distance and transit distance to the only family center for miles, where you swim and shower. What I am on my city but is not the beauty of the historical nature's high proud building, the architecture that is splashed through-from the different levels of the hill, the role towards the sea towards the sea. What I love about my neighborhood is the culture of people themselves. They see once Hilltop the notorious neighborhood on the west coast for gang power was. You still hear stories, even three decades later about the Federal Government officials and the DEA sweeps through and tries to clean the streets. The people, they do not forget. Stories are still from generation to generation, up to transplants like me, those days passed. People work hard, even if it is still one of the coarser, hoods' is cleaned throughout the city, to keep it cleaned. You still take care of what's going on in your city on your block. They say that if they are white, then they should not walk around the hill after dark. Truly, I believe that this warning is reminiscent of the ancient times, and it is colored with the acidic taste of social conditioning. Maybe it's that I'm just dark enough for a not completely handed over "white girl", or maybe Hilltop recognizes me as one of her, someone who is just as painfully aware of the memories that are constantly plaguing our nation. Memories that are made racism, cultural conditioning and assumptions, for ignorance and fear, even in a city that allegedly be a cultural crucible Utopia. One thing I know: no matter how far I walk around, the Hilltop house is. I feel alive walking at night those streets to meet people who have faster and rarely offered a jacket than to rob me. It is a place where Laundromat owner lately opened only a few minutes to recharge my phone when I did not have to escape from the rain. It is a place where I sat, I believe against concrete shopfronts most gray tristen nights invisible, crying together, just to have someone's attack and look me in the eyes, hand me a $ 5, and tell me, I am Nice and valuable.