My neighborhood is in the SMACK center of the high desert, where dirt, dirt and more dirt is present. Unless someone experienced life here, they probably understand the feeling of always seeing the feeling, and if they see a lawn, they know that the person spends a fortune on lawn care. When I lived here in the 90s, houses were broken out far and wide. Now it's pretty much in the same way as there are many new additions. Honestly, this place looks like a city every day, but guess most places change in the same way. Mostly people are very friendly, but like every city they have their good parts and bad. In my neighborhood I am surrounded by friendly old people. I think it's a nice neighborhood. The shops in this place are pretty much the shop, the chains, like food for less and intelligent and final. If you want uscale you have to travel, I never really see foods or shops of this nature. The jobs that are most prominent in my city say that I was not based on an official demographics, is the construction. I think this is based on this city, is not yet very developed, there are still many wide open spaces to build. This kind of fear, I like the things as you are now. I left a big city and I'm not interested in going back. Speaking of Construction This was the field in which my full-time job is located in a drywall and T-bar installer. What I like at my home is the different animals. For many reasons, people come into the high desert, not only, of which is not the strong beauty of the desert itself. High desert climate and topography have created sophisticated ecosystems that need protection and host other animal species. Human residents of the high desert should take the time to get to know each other about the non-human residents who share these environment, to coe safe and harmonious. My family and I have adapted myself very well to the wildlife. I have three children and they are all obsessed by lizards and dessert win, as I write that now, now they are trying outside to catch different specimens. As far as sights goes, we have some. In addition, Victorville is a good place for families to experience the desert. There can be another experience. If you can, plan your visit to merge with its annual event: the San Bernardino County Fair. The fair will enrich your visit with the right mix of activities and fun at the Victorville style. Pop in the nearby Whaimwood to see the snow-capped mountains and take a winter sports lessons to complete your visit. Interested in the natural history and culture of the high desert ecosystem? The Victor Valley Museum includes geological and paleontological specimens, indigenous artifacts and historical properties that tell the history of the development of society and industry from Victorville.