The general area in which I live can be described as a typical suburbs of the biscuit cutters. Especially for my neighborhood, the presence of a home owner is very obvious. When entering you do not see anything but well-kept single-family homes, which we can thank for the homeowners association. The front meters are all very similar. There is a small stain of landscaped grass, some decorative pebbles and rather short entrances. Everything so often they also see small trees. Everyone has a two-car garage. If you continue nearby in the area, you will see newly paved concrete. Despite many other families who live here, the streets are in excellent condition. Here you will find no potholes or the like. Most houses are single story, but sometimes they also see two stories. We have no typical mailbox setup that you would expect for a single family homes. There are no individual mailboxes in front of each house. Instead, it is more like apartments in which there is a large grouping of mailboxes at the end of the road. Everyone uses a key to access their specific mailbox. And there are two larger lockers for packages. Again, they can thank Hoa and their obsession with uniformity. The location of my house is at the outermost edge of the nearby city, so my neighborhood can be referred to as part of rural, partial partial stripes. As a result, we have a lot of land, everything, everything. There are several community pools that everyone lives here. It's well maintained and gated. And then there are different hiking trails where you can walk your dog or just walk an evening. You do not have to visit a park to get your exercise. The neighborhood is big enough that you can easily walk around and get more than enough exercise. Most community consists of retired people. It is a very safe area, and everyone looks over each other. With mixed, we also have a small amount of medium age and young professionals. In terms of the city, it is surprisingly large - at least from the population - but also has a small time city. We have the great majority of the amenities you expect and rely on. For example, we have an exact shopping center. It is not huge, but the work will be done. For me it takes about 15 minutes drive to be significant everywhere, but as soon as I do that, I'm greeted with many different stores. We have everything from high-end grocery stores in which you can get organic food to get with bargain outlets that only one small selection of objects gives a small selection of items and the naked minimum stock has to stop the cost. All in all, my neighborhood is safe, well maintained and pretty typical. We have many nice things like pools and hiking trails. And although we are not near the kind of shopping, you can only rise in a car and go to an important chain you want.