There are not many sidewalks in which I live. Everything seems to flow down, and my house sits right on the crest of the steepest hill in the neighborhood. People call it the "Training Hill" because so many joggers like to run during their daily training. How there is no sidewalks on my street, everyone goes on the street. There the road is popular in a few places and can feel a bit dangerous to continue. Some of the telephone and electrical wires stretched on the blocked view of the block. It rains and storms a lot in our area so that branches and other debris often reduce the power lines, and the constant repairs make them checked and patchwork-y appearance. There are many great evergreen trees in which they look everywhere. But people hate the trees here. They strive to cut as many as possible as the trees hinder the view of the sea. Therefore, many of the houses are built so high on the hill, with huge, glass-frowned second stories, which are picked up to the bay after another. It's beautiful around the sunset when the water seems illuminated from below and the sky is orange. It is often cloudy than not, so end up at the end of the sunlight through a haze. Most days are cloudy and humid. Moss grows up everything he can: roofs, cars and railings. I've parked my car in my entrance for a month, and when I went out to use it, it was green and pelted with moss. I needed three hours to rattle everything. There are not so many children where I live, though there is a school, only a few blocks away. Most people in my neighborhood are older, many of them retired. Instead of children, people have dogs. It is common for you to sit in the lawn of people or race the road one after the other. If you leave a door or open a window, risk that you can sneak it into your house. I found one once in my living room and had to sit back to meet the front door. Rabbit run wild in the area. Some of them are well dimensioned, and the gardener hate them because the roots of plants ditch and dig into the grasslands of people. But my cats love them and have hunted most of them from our neighborhood. We also get the usual assortment of birds: small sparrows and hummingbirds, and the occasional falcific or eagle sometimes encounters until the neighborhood crows hatch it. There are no shops in the area, but if you go to the Waterfront, there are a few restaurants serving fresh seafood. There is no big beach down there, but the rocks along the shore are fun to skid the water. The bay itself is not very wide. You can also clearly see the opposite coastline through the fog on most days.