The first thing you need to understand about Portland is Oregon's definition of "strange". The unofficial city slogan, on the back of a building, which serves as a pizza joint, bar, music events, strip club and skirts the law for at least half of these efforts is "Keep Portland Strange". In some, this is a small scream to remember the Portland of the 90s and early 2000s, a Portland that was less known and was less expensive, creative and unique subcultures produced. Another is a winking call - come to Portland, where people still call them strange, but this time a compliment. Despite the influx of wealthy Californians and the constant construction of condominiums to accommodate this Californians, Portland is still funny. Strange does not always mean to be accepted, but it means that things are accepted normally not accepted. Strange does not mean that we have no modern amenities and modern struggles. Like the rest of the country we buy most of our things from China. There are one million ways to be strange, not to be normal, but Portland has much normal. Portland has yoga and hipster and business people. Maybe what strange means that we take everything less seriously. In my neighborhood, as in many hotels in Portland, we have colorful houses, home gardens with flowers and herbs and vegetables that use the streets, and free boxing in summer. Free boxes are traditionally carton boxes that contain items from which someone get rid of, but they can be plastic bags or boxes. They contain something magical, a sweetheart, who is perfect for the person who hikes from a surprising amount of time is perfect. Free boxes have to have clothes and books, but they can have everything. The magical potential of walking through a Southeast neighbor Portland is what Portland turns. That's which Portland is all for me, but I'm just a variety of stranger among thousands. Some people under which I live would never dream of selecting their clothes from a box on the sidewalk. These people go in goat yoga (yes, yoga with real live goats) or Timbers games (football team of the city). Portland is full of people who love all sorts of things. Portland is full of people who pursue our dreams or dream of pursuing our dreams while spending too much time at the bar. Yes, Portland has a drug problem. Drug problems tend to be mental health problems, and the constant rain through a large part of the year as well as the desolate clouds seem to be a contribution. Portland also has a homelessness problem with which no one seems to know it with whom he has to do. The homeless population is offered by social services Portland, better than most parts of the country, but our services are insufficient, as in all parts of the country. The non-homeless population fluctuates between care and hatred. In this case we are not weird at all.