I moved to this neighborhood just when I just wanted to start the eighth grade. It was hard for me to celebrate friends first, but I am close to someone near me, who lives two houses of mine, and another guy who lives on my street. None of them lives there more there, but the memories are still there. The same people who lived here when I moved here for the first time, are for the most part here. My neighborhood is similar to your average American suburban neighborhood. The neighborhood has many two-storey houses in it. Every weekend or only whenever it is warm outside, I hear the children playing outside. The neighborhood is the most days of the week quiet. I have never had a problem with one of the people in the neighborhood. They are left alone in this neighborhood if they do not need help. I ordered several packages online and have never laid a package from my porch. I feel like I would trust my neighbor. There is a park in one or two park from my house. I have many memories there. I played basketball, football and baseball with the other guys in the neighborhood. I also landed there with one of my worst memories, when I was tied in the nose in the nose, but the good memories outweigh the bad. Nowadays whenever I go to this park, it's time to spend time with the children of my cousin. They are much younger than me and still like to play on swinging and films and all this kind of stuff. Only the thought of going to the park makes it excited. The park makes me very nostalgic for different reasons. The neighborhood is very diverse. You will find all kinds of food nearby. In just one miles radius you can find Chinese, Indian, Mexican and Italian restaurants. Nowadays, however, many people only use apps, only as a grubhub and doordash to achieve their food to them. The most popular food options are the fast food stores, but you can get these nearby pretty much any suburban neighborhood. There are also many pizza places. The shops here include everything they would ever need. There are several chemical cleaning products nearby. There is a Walgreens and a CVS in the same street as well as a jewel osco grocery store popular in the Midwest. Some of the shops are even diverse as there is an Indian store if they are ever in the mood to create a homemade Indian food or buy a few prefabricated Indian foods. Overall, I am a fan of my neighborhood. Read on social media and attractions in the news Some of the horror stories of other people must go through their neighbors, brings me grateful for mine.