I live in rural America, especially small town Michigan. Where they go from farmland to small tourist cities. There are no big city masses, no whale-mart, destination or even an Applebee. Everywhere you have to go, you have to drive to get. Nevertheless, I live in one of the most beautiful places in the world surrounded by water. My "city" is surrounded by water. Beautiful lake Michigan to one side and the Charlevoix lake on the other side. Everywhere, where you go, find a beach to take your toes in. My neighborhood, reflects the idea of ​​the small town. Houses are not stacked on each other. They are not cooking milling houses that are built the same. They are older houses, some of them are updated and rebuilt that some of them are older. Most houses have cellar. Complete basement you can see from the street. Many houses in the neighborhood have older aluminum siding. We have any color that you can imagine in the blocks surrounding my house. Most houses have meters. Yards with trampolines and playsets. Some people have gardens and fences for their animals. The houses resemble Central America. Hard working people working to make their livelihood and build family families or eat up families. On a given day you will see children running on the streets. You also see people who see the going dogs, cycling and scooter bubble. Neighbors know neighbors and they can see who fits, and who does not belong. They will grill someone outdoors and wave, or even someone who goes down their dog from a few blocks and smile pleasantly. The lawns are stored in decent condition. Nobody stacked the leaves of trap times. Green grass is held and kept under control. When people have plants and bushes in their meters, they will be stopped. It is not a beautiful neighborhood in which you enter and think in the beautiful houses, but you drive, but you drive in and think you can say that this is a good place to raise a family. It is quiet, peaceful and and safe. While only the average is looking, it is exceptional that it is that it represents what people want in the world, which is a safe place at the end of the day. At the distance there is the department and the prison of County Sheriff. The health department is only afterwards. The City Recycling Center sits right on the roadside, and neighbors and residents from all over the city use the services provided by them. We have baseball and softball fields nearby in which you can hear which announcement results call the names of the players and call the names of the players. Our small town airport is next to it. You can play outside, or even inside and hear the rumbling of small engine levels that decrease and land. You can go to get ice from the local ice ground, and if you are really inside, you can create it from our neighborhood of houses in the city center. My children can drive with the bicycles in the park, which is only 8 blocks or so far away. It's a really great place to live.