Now, considering that I was here for about 10 years, I think I can share what I know. At first I was pretty sad when I came to my neighborhood for the first time. I came from Riverdale to Stockbridge, and I will not lie, I cried because I missed her because I missed her, and I loved her. But my mother and father wanted the best for me and my little sister, so we moved better location for apartments, a better high school, everything was considered "not ghetto" when we moved into our new neighborhood. Over the years, I got used to it and made some new friends and some new enemies in school. I have never really met my neighbors in the years, except Mr. Glen and his children as well as a bit Dennis, both are right next to us. They were pleasant people who can almost consider as a family as a family, and I really appreciate them. I remember when I went, Mom, Dad, and my sister, to Mr. Glen's wedding (they were married again) It was really funny and pleasant to tell the slacks, and something I'm looking forward to myself. I mean wealth and give my future wife the life of a queen. As Mr. Glen's Mrs. Veda removed the white little strap on her leg and it threw it, I caught it! Unfortunately, I did not catch the flowers! We all danced the night away, and I really enjoyed having a good time with Marsharii, one of their daughters. I have not seen her since then. I hope you move on to larger and better things. The neighborhood itself is like a labyrinth, although I have a GPS now, so I can take more time to explore them. I just went so far, and that's when I have hung Kason and Curtis with my friends. We all used to play video games alot, and just enjoy life to the fullest, as much as we could. Sometimes I would go to the park and enjoy nature, which reassures my soul. There are a sense of peace and quiet nowadays. I also bring a few sticks that I bought from the home depot, and just practice my balance and bring my bokken wooden sword if I can ,. I have fun to enjoy what I like to do. There is also a basketball and tennis court, although I have not played tennis or basketball for a long time, it's still nice if I ever want to recall it and give it another. My father grew me and my best friend on tennis with Mr. Graves, and we always had a great time. They worked hard! But we were always fun. I think there are many times in which I had fun in this neighborhood, and there are many stories, but that's what really stuck me to me, and I believe that's best, that's not yet!