My neighborhood is interesting. Most of the houses are a single family, but there are a few houses shared in two while they are still attached if this makes great sense. My home has a small yard in front of him and a small entrance to the left of the house. Like most of the others, you remind you of a time you are not so long, where you live in the suburbs, the American dream. This dream seemed to embrace the people immediately, but now it attracts. But my neighborhood and many more still remain, still call us, and those who visit that the dream is still alive, and we still keep as good as possible. People do not feel so potomistic as early, the maintenance of the small meter is not what they used to, but in every driveway there is still a car, but still the youth played as if the world around them was the Whole existence. The public school, which has been here for almost 90 years, is still a future in today's youth, while nostalgia stirred in the older residents. The churches are little and far in between, mostly empty, but the basketball courts are still full. All houses look different, but feel the same. There is a large supermarket named Super "A", which belongs to a large family of Yemni, which is quite possible the only Arab family in the neighborhood. The vast majority of residents is African American. The streets are wide and the children usually play Footbal, just up to date, so that the cars can happen. Most people in my neighborhood have been here for generations here, and most of them can tell stories of one past in which everyone knew everyone. There was a Karachule, but as Hollywood stopped making karate kid films, the children listened to the karate child, so it's a pharmacy now, because drugs make everything better, or as I've heard. There is also a small cinema theater, the old films plays at a discounted price, which of the youth of the youth DISDANE for the lack of release title SPARG OUT, without the children of course. There is a single expressway that happens by my city. Although the exit and the entrance in the city are next to us. There was a petition once to get our city and leave. The youth supported it while the elders were rejected. It seems that the expressway in our city would ruin it, so said the oldest, who finally voted the city council, the city council to reject the request. They build a new high school and try to decide on a Mascott for our city. I think a Cyborg with a country accent and a log cabin would be the best representation of my city.