The first time I had heard of my place, I heard a podcast about people who would miss. It was a bit surprising. Almost every apartment in the area went over a thousand dollars a month. I had never heard something about this story and had none of my friends. Maybe it's the fight. I know that a few of my friends fall asleep at night. Things are expensive, but we have learned to be economical over the years. They start to like the dusty smell of flea market toy, and according to clothes. They smell much less in adulthood. You could start smoking smoking, or you can only be used to the state of things. However, the flea market always claims. The smell of adulthood is dusty magazines stacked on a closed piano. It is waved in the leather and remains after washing. There are 3 enacted shops in foot. If you start on the other side, you can patronize two charity, a library, a rare bookstore and a Curio shop. The city center is dense, cars and people fill the streets every morning, but they would never hear it in the draw. No matter how many people or cars pass by, the store is quiet. It is a nice place to lose an afternoon. Every year there are more and more of them. Cars and people flood it. It's a development city, they say. With one of the biggest online grams for e-commerce and delivery, it still shows growing pain. It reminds me of New York. Everything and everyone is set to their own goals, and there is no quantities that someone does not ask them. You can be alone, quiet and independent, and people will leave them alone. It's not like the south, where a little worried is that you are interested. They are not here in someone's life, really. You can keep your shell as long as you want, and the city will crash and return to the beach. It is a lively place to be. There is always something going on between the pianist next door and the two amateur singer upstairs. In a way, we have less a flat of strangers and more a community of friends. We come together for our needs, celebrate birthdays, mourning burials and help each other when we can. In a way, I'm lucky enough to be here. I like most of my neighbors, and they treat me pretty well. I try to clean safely after me and let the food, and they do the same in style. I bring them post and you to me. It's nice to see you, and I believe that you enjoy my presence as well as I do you. I live in a massive, dehumanizing modernist structure, but it's people who like my neighbors that feel me as if I were not totally ruined my life.