My neighborhood is near the colleg that I visit, and I like to be there. There are mainly residential buildings, but a few restaurants and bars that are fun and are not particularly expensive to go. One of the bars was just renamed, and that you're more expensive to go, but it's not really the worst service quality or drinks there. Most people are beautiful. They are either college children, or they are lower revenue, as the housing dust is not very expensive. There are many children nearby, as there is a primary school, which is only a few minutes walk from my apartment. I do not know my neighbors, but I do not really want. They smoke a lot of weeds and put the management of my building an air frying unit out of your door, which my friend and I found very funny. It is almost offensive. The buildings around me are usually quite old, but could have renovated interior. Down down the street, a bit there are brand new apartments, but I do not like them because I know that the construction done on them was not particularly good. They are built cheap, but the rent is expensive, which I believe is such a scam, but because they are near campus, the management of these buildings can get away. There is a truly cheap restaurant of about five minutes, from where I live from which only food is served on paper panels and most of what you make is microwaves. Then then a gas station I heard is not a very good job. But thanks to some money from the city, the street was renewed last summer, so there is a beautiful big sidewalk, a lot of grass on the medians and the sides of the streets, and now the area is a bit more beautiful. But the house where I live is wrapped in Tress. They cut a pair of them, so there are a few stumps, but there are many trees in which I live down as the street. Behind my apartment complex is a tree line and then another set of apartments. I live in the 42nd street, but directly behind it is the 43rd street and that's not so nice. The sidewalks are really bad and falls apart, and most buildings are shabby. There are many trees on this street, but that's probably to hide how the building looks like. Most crime in my area has happened to an apartment complex on this street, but then I can not only make blame. There are apartments across the street from me, which also have a lot of crimes and a pretty temporary population. But I think I like where I live. I can afford it, and there are many useful amenities nearby. I especially likes how the university is within walking distance, and there are two bus stops so that I can get easier to shop and downtown.