My neighborhood is a picturesque little city. In South Carolina, it does not attract itself from others, but he has a significant impact on the agricultural sector. Johnston is known as a peach capital of the world, something that the city proudly proudly boasts the inviting sign. It consists mainly of farmland dominated by peach trees or cattle. Houses that are not in the main part of the city are largely spaced apart. Most are two stories with either metal roofs to combat the blazing summer heat or gray shingles. More often than these houses near the street, but are other back, so that the front fields for animals / harvest can be used. Within the main part of the city there is a single stop light hanging on four ways. Here are the only branches throughout the city. There are three places where you can get "Fast Food": Hong Kong, a small Chinese restaurant, which is operated by a single family, Fiesta Mexican restaurant or Garys, a small burger chain. There it used to be a pizzeria, but closed recently There is a very small family-run pharmacy called Maxwell and Halford drug. I am funny enough, they are best for the cherry Coca-Cola they sell. There is a small but expensive grocery store called independent food breaks, commonly called IGA. While it is the only grocery store throughout the city, many individuals just hold to record one or two items. Most prefer to travel to a Walmart in Batesburg Leesville to acquire the majority of their food forces from a friendly woman who is known in the community. The store has been in Johnston for a variety of years in Johnston and even employs two modules that deliver the purchased furniture! The building-bound building is a small pet-groomer named Clarks cuts and second. They offer a variety of services such as daycare, pensions, care, nail loops, bathing, etc. The doctor and veterinary practice are located from the main part of the city. They are both very small practices, but well equipped to help the residents of Johnston. There is a single elementary school called Johnston Elementary School. As soon as the students have completed the fifth grade, they must participate in the next city both in the middle and high school. There are technically no parks in the city, but they are currently in the midst of 2.5 hectares of recreational areas to create families with more opportunities for the accuracy of excursion permits and attract more visitors / potential inhabitants. Admittedly, it is not much to do; There are no cinemas, bowling streets, "hang-rum" points, playgrounds for children, areas that go pets, or a variety of restaurants. Nevertheless, it is a beautiful city, so small that you could go in the momentum without realizing!