The mountains are always there. In the north you testify to the journey of the sun every dawn and every dawn. No matter how much I'm forget you or caught with work and life to notice that you notice you are there, unshakeable, does not work and unhamifier from the cloudy life. On days I'm most stressed and wound, they demand, be seen, and when I turn to them, let me rest my anxious soul to give me a power to go one day a day. I've moved for the first time when I started with my urbanity, and the mountains north of the campus, where what touched me first. Sure, the university has its own share of breathtaking sights in buildings and ponds and trees, which have their own share of my heart, but it's the mountains that really holds their throne. The rest of the city is alone. There are countless cafes, who cared for many hours of caffeine they cattle. You can walk the bus walk or take, just a little further into the city center and in an aura of antiquity enveloped by the faded colored bricks, serving restaurants and office buildings. This seems like this seemingly prestigious city as a lot of trust and strength, as it is neighboring urban city. However, this does not take for many blocks because you can escape again to go back to the quiet small town by passing the library. This dichotomy of atmospheres in such proximity really gives this city a wonderful atmosphere, as if it waves to be explored. This makes it easy to create many estimated memories that are related in connection with a specific district. Whether it is past the rusted rocking in the park with friends for an All-Nighter or runs through the bustling downtown to catch the movie in the caught theater, for which the University of Tickets provided. Unfortunately, it also houses many hard memories, as all places must be in life. In particular, the ponds can be a more reasonable place for reflection, as well as crying meetings at two in the morning in the middle of an existential crisis. The latter I have more experience. While I watched the turtles and ducks and insects, living in insects, living in insects, each with some post or role, I could not help but surprise about my own purpose of purposes when I endeavored to navigate this puzzle Called life. So I passed the pond past the park and small houses screaming from suburbia until I reached a main road. Then the sun shone his brilliant rays on the palm trees that paint the sky on the way, and when I looked up at sunrise, I realized that I went to the north. Sure enough, they were there as they have always been. The sturdy overbearing mountains graze the hazy blue and yellow sky more than any building on the horizon, and as if they speak without words, my feeling of perseverance touched.