You could pass it at first glance - after all, it's a residential area behind a shopping strip, no place where you would assume that there are places to live. At least not places would want to live most people. However, if you go behind the old, abandoned whole food and return behind the hotels, which are only busy annually from a few intervals in summer time for family associations, you will find an entire busy community. Within these municipalities, a handful of apartment complex - side by side are carefully as carefully as Russian NIST dolls, carefully, carefully, carefully taken apart and in a line in a line down the road, piece by piece. The first apartments you come to, are those who were in the message for some unforeseen circumstances, so we do not focus on the too much - phenomena, finally it can be fooled. But the apartments next to this complex, and the two complexes next to this, are a whole other world that knows almost no one in this area. Opposite these complexes is the satellite campus of a community college - a quiet, sleepy building set, the Sentinel standing next to the road, where the student comes in hand in hand in hand, at 7 o'clock in the morning yawn to her Sleepy days to start. The iron gates are open to growing them in succession while commuters shake their fists out of the window, groaning to keep the traffic at the presence of days, is higher. The Streets T-Bones in another residential street, with a park on one side and a rehabilitation center for people who have broken bones broken in unfortunate circumstances. The treatment center has cheerful veranda furniture and a tableted wavy ceiling fan, which moves the warm, thick Summertime Air back and forth. Children run in the grass on the park across the street, with the car wheel, with the car wheel and on the prickly green stems, while bees penetrate sluggish into the flowers on the street. Old retired people walk their dogs on the trail, lowered themselves on the teenagers on their skateboards and nodded on the teenage girl combating from the playground equipment, clapping with boys and the latest Youtube sensations. There is a sushi square in a strip mall next to the park, which has inexpensive food, but never seems too busy - a swimming supply store right next to that, and a nail salon that is embedded in between. You could fill your pool for the season while you get a manicure and eat Hibachi chicken, all at the same time - the beauty of a strip mall. There is also a frozen yoghurt square, one of the DIY style, and often they often see the teen in the park, the cold cold cold, sweating cups of the frozen yoghurt covered with toppings while stunk on their skateboards and vape because they believe that they believe it's coolest. The neighborhood questionable is a piece of Americana - a piece of history in the sleepy south, in which hardly anything changes, not even time.