When I asked to describe my neighborhood, I'm sure my answer is a bit unique. While others who react to them are the most likely homeowner with their own individual life, my situation is a bit different. I hold my neighborhood to be the college campus where I stay, and the people living in my dormitory to be my community. I also consider the surrounding campus to be my neighborhood, albeit in a lesser extent. Despite this peculiarity, my neighborhood tells some similarities with the more conventional ideas about a neighborhood. Just like any conventional neighborhood I overnight in the neighborhood, in the houses, people, shops and parks. Let's start with the beginning of the "houses" that contain my neighborhood. Before I start to explore the houses in my neighborhood, it would be best to clarify the types of house that can be found in my neighborhood. In my immediate surroundings there are three types of apartments, the apartments, the actual houses and the dorm. First, in the apartments, there are usually between 2-4 people in a particular room, and there are about 4-6 rooms on each floor. The most common type of building can take about 2 floors, so on average 20 or so that people live in each building. Second, the actual houses that are available to everyone are rented with a belonging to school. Normally these are 2-4 bedroom setups that usually live alumni in them. However, there are only a handful of these types of houses spread in the area in the area as they are less efficient. Finally, there are the typical dorm rooms that offer 100's students. In these you have two people who share a room with one exception, and it is the most common type of housing in my neighborhood. With the case covered we are ready to draw on people. My school proud of diversity and this reflects in the makeup of my neighborhood. There are people from all cultures and age who live in my neighborhood. Most of the professional staff live in the houses placed in the neighborhood while the newer students stay in the dorm in the living area, and the older students stay in the apartment in the apartment. People in this neighborhood can not do justice by just talking about them, so it would be best to easily move into the shops and parks in my neighborhood. Since my school is really a self-contained neighborhood, it has a wealth of shops and a single park. The shops are a mixture of gastronomic options that can be found in another neighborhood, and the schools own unique brand of clothing and grocery stores. As such, everything is needed to be found in the limits of my neighborhood! In addition, the park in my neighborhood is a playground for all diverse people in my neighborhood, it is kept clean and free of crimes from all members of my neighborhood!