Since I live in a big city, my neighborhood is extremely diverse. Residential areas are dispersed, apparently random between commercial areas, where a variety of companies is carried out. Some of these companies consist of offices, while others are different shops, restaurants and entertainment locations. There is no shortage of new restaurants where you can eat or shop in shops. While some shops large, well-known brands in which large companies belong, small boutiques are also increasingly popular. You are not only in different shopping centers, but it also dies the streets, which are often within walking distance of quarters, which would otherwise be quiet and quiet if they are not surrounded by so many attractions. There are also a few nearby parks, and I have found that people often have these parks with their little children. Speaking of people, it's actually quite a lot of diversity in my neighborhood. In a small location we have a prominent LGBTQ + community, an orthodox Jewish community and a collection of refugees and immigrants from the former Soviet Union. A little further outside my neighborhood there are many more people of different breeds and origins, though sometimes they are broken into their own little communities in the city. We have locations known as Korea city, China city, small Armenia and much more, which are just a few kilometers away. Only a few miles can prove to be very long drive. The ride of a distance of only 10 miles can sometimes extend for two hours long because of traffic, especially during rush hour. Hardly anyone in my city is somewhere somewhere. While certain interest sites are inevitable immediately, the city is huge, and people do not prefer to commute on foot. As a result, we also have a part of the worst traffic in the world, and it can be difficult to find parking almost everywhere. Ironically, much construction has been built in recent years, as large residential buildings are added in the city. It seems to be a popular goal, but many inhabitants are disappointed, from the prospect that more people move into, and even more vehicles on the streets. In my city there are many different types of houses. Not everyone lives or wants to live in a large house. Residential areas consist of houses, different sizes and smaller residential buildings and condos. Some properties contain single-family homes while other duplexes contain. This also applies to my immediate neighborhood, so no variety in terms of residential options is missing. Similarly, the neighborhood consists of people with different ages, and to be honest, I am not familiar with the majority of my neighbors. It is not really a narrow community these days, although I have many memories from my childhood to play outside with my neighbor outside, and a few other friends from the neighborhood that were near my age.