As a result, inadequate film adaptations of books have increased lately.  Despite its popularity in the box office, the film adaptation of The Hunger Games abandoned the emotional depth of the book and replaced it with rushed action and dialogue.  Film critic Scott Bowles states: “The film's failings aren't entirely its own making. In trying to match the novel's myriad cast, Games paints a raft of characters it can't support, leaving deaths that should be heartrending more as a pause in the action. And while Katniss and Peeta…are emotionally layered in the novel, here they are simpler souls, two-thirds of a rickety love triangle” (USA Today).  The poor quality of The Hunger Games film shows Hollywood’s cynical exploitation of a profound and successful novel.  Taking advantage of the novels loyal fans, Hollywood produced an expensive but superficial film, sacrificing the meaning and beauty of the story for a quick financial gain.
Movies based on comic books, such as X-Men, Batman, and Spider-Man, have, for the most part, done very well in theaters.  However, it is in the sequels where the quality starts to degrade.  Spider-Man 3, X-Men: The Last Stand, X-Men Origins: Wolverine, Fantastic Four: Rise of the Silver Surfer, and Ghost Rider: Spirit of Vengeance are all examples of sequels and prequels in the comic book genre that have failed to stay true to the story and instead depend on special effects and action to make them appealing.  These failures have prompted the studios to reboot both Spider-Man and ­X-Men.  These reboots are often more successful than their predecessors, which is true of X-Men: First Class and The Incredible Hulk.  But not all comic book heroes have nice transitions to the big screen.  Daredevil, Ghost Rider, Fantastic Four, Elektra, and Green Lantern are among the league of superhero comics that have failed to be successful on the silver screen.  This failure has caught the attention of movie critics such as Elizabeth Weitzman, who writes about the sequel to Ghost Rider, “The original ‘Ghost Rider’ failed to impress many fans of the comic books on which it was based, and this one feels like a 10th-generation Xerox. Even the effects are likely to leave you cold…” (NY Daily News).  However, these films have at least done better than most movies based on video games and board games.  
Video games such as Tomb Raider, Resident Evil, Silent Hill, Mortal Kombat, and others have been turned into movies but, while successful to an extent, have failed to stay true to the original storylines.  Instead, they rely on the popularity of both the original game and the actors cast.  This deviation is especially true in Tomb Raider and Resident Evil, where the star power of Angelina Jolie and Milla Jovovich respectively have made the films popular.  Video games are a hard medium to transfer into major Hollywood blockbusters because budgets, director choices, actors, and the rating systems differ between the video game world and the movie world.  However, board games have started to find their way into the movie world.  Battleship is being transformed into a real life movie, using CGI battleships that look as if they were stolen from Transformers.  While some of these types of films are successful, the majority are failures that lack faithfulness to the original story.  Despite this flaw, Hollywood continues to pump out movies in these veins and add multiple sequels that wander further and further away from the real storyline than the original, and all for the sake of money.
